Gemfibrozil helps to lower cholesterol. Gemfibrozil should be used together with lifestyle changes such as diet, weight-loss, and exercise. Gemfibrozil is a prescription medication used with diet and exercise to reduce elevated LDL ("bad" cholesterol) and triglyceride levels while raising HDL ("good cholesterol"). This medication belongs to a group of drugs called fibrates. It works by reducing the production of triglycerides in the liver and by causing an increase in HDL. Gemfibrozil comes in tablet form. It is taken twice daily, 30 minutes before morning and evening meals. Common side effects include heartburn, stomach pain, nausea, and diarrhea. Gemfibrozil may cause dizziness and blurred vision. Do not drive or operate heavy machinery until you know how gemfibrozil affects you. How was your experience with Gemfibrozil? What tips would you provide a friend before taking Gemfibrozil? What are you taking Gemfibrozil for? How well did Gemfibrozil work for you? How likely would you be to recommend Gemfibrozil to a friend? This is not a complete list of gemfibrozil side effects. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. This is not a complete list of gemfibrozil drug interactions. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. A medication similar to gemfibrozil has caused cancer, gallbladder disease, and stomach pain. Talk to your doctor about the risks associated with gemfibrozil. Medications can interact with certain foods. In some cases, this may be harmful and your doctor may advise you to avoid certain foods. In the case of gemfibrozil, there are no specific foods that you must exclude from your diet when receiving this medication. However, you are advised to eat a low-fat and low-choelsterol diet. Follow all exercise and dietary recommendations made by your doctor or dietition. Gemfibrozil falls into category C. In animal studies, pregnant animals were given this medication and had some babies born with problems. No well-controlled studies have been done in humans. Therefore, this medication may be used if the potential benefits to the mother outweigh the potential risks to the unborn child. It is not known if gemfibrozil crosses into human milk. Because many medications can cross into human milk and because of the possibility for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants with use this medication, a choice should be made whether to stop nursing or stop the use of this medication. Your doctor and you will decide if the benefits outweigh the risk of using gemfibrozil. Take gemfibrozil exactly as prescribed. Gemfibrozil comes in oral tablet form and is taken 2 times a day, 30 minutes before the morning and evening meals. If you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and take your next dose at the regular time. Do not take 2 doses of gemfibrozil at the same time. The recommended dose of gemfibrozil for adults is 1200 mg divided into 2 doses a day. It should be taken 30 minutes before the morning and evening meals. If you take too much gemfibrozil, call your healthcare provider or local Poison Control Center or seek emergency medical attention right away. If gemfibrozil is administered by a healthcare provider in a medical setting, it is unlikely that an overdose will occur. However, if an overdose is suspected, seek emergency medical attention. Store gemfibrozil at room temperature.