OMG we love these Unicorn shaped cakes inspired by Diptyque Baies candle and layered with a variety of berry flavoured Swiss meringue cream at KENS Christmas Carnival party recently, held at their latest store at Suria KLCC. Come let’s check out what they have in store for this holiday season. A Christmas Carnival theme at all KENS apothecary stores featuring the rotating Ferris wheels decorated with colored LED lights carrying numerous product ideas, completed with white snow and miniature pine trees. There more than 100 gift ideas in store from stocking fillers to luxury skincare, makeup, fragrances, body care, home care, coffret sets from brands like Caudalie, Diptyque, Marvis, Annick Goutal, Atelier Cologne, By Terry, Cire Trvdon, Creed, Dr Brandt, Dr Sebagh, Ren, Sachajuan, and Talika. And yes! we certainly love this Christmas wrapping corner and the gift-wrapping service that features a new 2016 KENS apothecary Holiday themed wrapping paper, adorned with Christmas ornaments to add on the festive spirit during this season of gifting. Kindly take note that the gift-wrapping service will be an additional service offered in all KENS apothecary stores at an affordable price. Congratulations to KENS apothecary on your newly launched 4th store at Suria KLCC and also the unveiling of this year holiday theme “A Christmas Carnival”. This is the kind of shop I like. No more headache looking for gift ideas, and gift wrapping will be a breeze too! Wow the gifts were very nice to look at! Love that yellow unicorn cake design iot looks so cute. love all those gift wrappings... so pretty... and the food looks so tempting too.. I walk pass Kens Apothecary every time when I go for lunch at One Utama. Thinking of visit Kens as they offered different type of skin care. Thanks for sharing this. the unicorn shaped cake looks yummy! Baru bukak ye? Sebelum ni tak pernah nampak. Thanks for sharing this babe! Look at those cute Christmas packaging!! Is just too cute to resist =D Will check this store soon! Christmas is just over but the fun will be remembered till the next year...Beautiful pics..