Today’s blogger is Amy Norton, our behind-the-scenes editor. If word choice were an Olympic sport, she’d get the gold. Thanks to Amy for writing today’s post on the newest fashion destination in Nashville: Anthropologie Shoes and Accessories. What is it about spending a little time in Anthropologie that seems to soothe the soul? Mine, anyway. Whenever I need a pick-me-up (i.e. Winter 2011 – all of it), a quick spin through this favorite haunt always seems to lift my spirits. Doesn’t matter if I leave with the smallest of trinkets –maybe a candle or new pair of earrings– or an entire outfit purchased in anticipation of a new season. Although I might skulk in as Madame Frump, I always skip out feeling a little bit new again. And discovering a different way to reframe myself makes me happy to contemplate the contents of my closet again. Having just attended the grand opening of Anthropologie’s Shoes and Accessories Boutique in the Mall at Green Hills last week, I’m thrilled to know that all of my discretionary spending will now be trackable to one place. (Who needs groceries anyway, right?) Since I was a child, I’ve had a fetish for accessories, and Anthro’s newest store is brimming with amazing adornments from all around the world (not to mention our own back yard) in the form of jewelry, handbags, scarves, belts and shoes. Anything you need to elevate your standard issue jeans-and tee from “wah” to “wow” can be found here. Just take a seat on the emerald green velvet divan in the shoe gallery and soak up the visual feast of all the baubles around you and you’ll see what I mean. Vintage sunglasses. Never worn, discovered in a warehouse by an enterprising buyer. How about a little old fashioned needlepoint as a case for your iPhone? Love it. Whimsy and design courtesy of Virginia Johnson. Whether it’s vintage jewelry or custom handbags designed exclusively for the company, Katherine’s buyers literally travel the globe in search of the treasures they know their customers want. Says Katherine, “From Nepal to Ecuador, we find artisans in the craziest places creating amazing things…and the cohesive nature of our collection comes from knowing our clientele and buying for their particular aesthetic.” Note: 20% of the merchandise in the Nashville store is unique to this city, and 50% is unique to Anthropologie. So if you’ve ever wondered how a chain retailer can have stores dotted across the globe and feel different in each locale, now you know why. A Case Study in Vintage Jewelry You’ll Only Find in Nashville. Reminds me of things I have from my grandmother’s jewelry box, only better. No pinchy clip-on earrings. Anthropologie Accessories offers jewelry lines from six local designers, one of whom is Kari Beth, pictured here by a display of her vintage jewelry. And if she looks familiar, that may be because you’ve shopped with her at the Anthro store in the Hill Center. Worlds collide! Company-wide, from the designers, to the buyers to the sales associates, Anthropologie focuses on making the impossible find possible and offers endless and as-yet unimagined possibilities for creative self-expression. Sounds more like an art gallery than a retail chain, right? Precisely. Insider Shopping Tip: We’re told to always ask if there’s stock in the back not out on display. Anthropologie constantly receives new merchandise. All you have to do is ask what’s new. Don’t miss the StyleBlueprint huge $1,500 giveaway this week featuring Jamie, AshBlue, Judith Bright and H. Audrey as we celebrate Lexus Nashville Fashion Week. For details, click here.