Oliver, the longest-tenured NFL sideline reporter, a fixture at games since joining FOX Sports in 1995, continues in that role, this year working with play-by-play announcer Kevin Burkhardt and analyst John Lynch. Los Angeles - Pam Oliver, one of the premier reporters and interviewers in sports television, has been elevated to senior correspondent, FOX Sports, effectively immediately. The announcement was made today by Eric Shanks, President, COO and Executive Producer, FOX Sports. Oliver, the longest-tenured NFL sideline reporter, a fixture at games since joining FOX Sports in 1995, continues in that role, this year working with play-by-play announcer Kevin Burkhardt and analyst John Lynch. In Oliver's new position, she expands her influence beyond the NFL to include the wide breadth of sports and events covered by FOX Sports year-round, with her exclusive interviews, commentary and essays featured on a variety of FOX Sports programs and platforms, including FOX NFL SUNDAY, FOX SPORTS LIVE, AMERICA'S PREGAME, FOX SPORTS 1 ON 1, college football and basketball and FOXSports.com. "FOX Sports has grown tremendously over the last few years, and we've secured and retained the rights to many of the country's most popular sports," said Shanks. "After years of admiring Pam's consistently incredible work on the NFL, we realized that there was so much more she could do for us, on a variety of sports, all year long. Her intelligence and skills as a reporter and interviewer are unparalleled, and we're excited to have her take a much larger role here." "I'm excited and grateful to my Fox family for providing this thrilling new chapter in my career," said Oliver. "I'm over the moon for the opportunity to expand my contributions to include a wider variety of sports and programs, while still getting to report from the sidelines on NFL Sundays. I've already spoken with Kevin and John and I'm really looking forward to being part of their outstanding team this season, my 20th and final season the sidelines." Armed with the respect and esteem of NFL players, coaches and executives alike, Oliver's straightforward and direct interviewing style consistently produced topical and substantive reports which she'll now apply to the greater sports universe. In her 19 years covering the NFL for FOX Sports, Oliver has worked the sideline for over 350 games, including 19 NFC Championship Games and seven Super Bowls. In addition, she's provided hundreds of exclusive one-one interviews with the sports' news-making athletes, coaches and owners. She also served as co-anchor of FSN South's SOUTHERN SPORTS REPORT from 2000 to 2003, and also contributes to Turner Sports coverage of the NBA playoffs. In 2008, Oliver was honored by WISE (Women In Sports and Events) and chosen in their "Women of the Year" class alongside Rita Benson LeBlanc, Owner and Executive Vice President, New Orleans Saints and Molly Solomon, Coordinating Producer, NBC Olympics. Before joining FOX Sports, Oliver served as a reporter at ESPN, where she covered NFL regular and postseason games, the NBA Finals and Dream Team II at the 1995 World Championships of Basketball. Prior to joining ESPN, Oliver worked at KHOU in Houston WTVT in Tampa as a sports reporter and anchor. Hers additional career stops include WIVB in Buffalo, WAAY in Huntsville, Ala., WALB in Albany, Ga., and WFSU in Tallahassee. Oliver began her broadcasting career as a community affairs reporter for public television. A graduate of Florida A&M University in Tallahassee, Oliver received her degree in broadcast journalism. As an undergraduate, she held school records in the 400 meters and was an AIAW track and field All-American in both the 400 meters and the mile relay, and as a member of the mile relay team, she had the distinction of participating on the first women's team from Florida A&M to win a national championship (AIAW.) She was inducted into the Florida A&M Sports Hall of Fame in 1996.