This is awesome!! The Orange Islands was my favorite part of the anime when I was little. Please keep up the amazing work! It will be changed, I just don't exactly have a .asm lying around for LaZ's music though, I probably won't be able to do that. I'm still deciding what I want to use. EDIT2: Apparently he doesn't have the midi, the dude who made it for him also implemented it for him and afaik he is now inactive. Ivy is purple in game now, had her blue temporarily until I could be bothered to change the pink palette. Will be scripting houses for Valencia and Tangelo today, I need to create maps for the ports the two islands have as well. I'll probably end up devamping a boat from the gen 3 games since would be weird to have a huge SS Aqua in every port or something. Pokedex still isn't finalized but Wingull line and the rest of the OI variations will be implemented. Also going to see about adding a fourth fishing tier, tentatively I'll call it an Ultra Rod that will fish up level 50 or so rare Pokemon from the deep ocean. This will help bridge the gap until I decide whether or not I'm going to add Dive. This is a little nitpicky of a question but how many pokemon will be in this? More than 150 less than 255? Happy to say Valencia is complete. Music, encounters, scripts, maps. Everything. Will be changing some tiles and overworlds later on but for now I am quite happy with it. Next is polishing Tangelo scripts and working on the first dungeon, Tangelo Jungle. Alpha is here! Game ends after the Lapras event, Route 50 is not scripted yet. I should also inform Town Map crashes the game, so don't use it. New PCs, Indigo and Orange. All OI and Alolan variants added now, huge thanks to Bloodless for a good amount of sprites. Also, Bike is being replaced with a skateboard item, you'll be able to get it as soon as Mikan Island, so walking won't be too bad hopefully until then. Looking good man! Great choice of playable characters too. If there's any pokes backsprites you still haven't got for the planned dex let me know in chat and I'll bump em up the list. Oh yes! Forgot to mention I've disabled all sprite animations. Decided to stick with consistency, this also will give the ROM a bit more space to breath for new sprites. EDIT: Hope is now the lab assistant, Faith can reset the time and day of the week (for flash carts), and Charity will now practice battle you as many times as you'd like for some extra cash and experience. What do you mean by " also will give the ROM a bit more space to breath for new sprites. "? More space because less is being used. You plan on adding more demixes into the game? I really liked Tracey's battle theme in the Alpha and more of those would make this game better. Also, the new characters look great especially the male character. Once mmmmm finishes Rangi's requests he's going to be doing some RSE music for me to use in Orange. Oh ok. That's good. Rangi's near completion of his hack Polished Crystal anyway so yeah. My friend asked me to release something before Beta 1 since he felt the alpha didn't really showcase what this was all about. I agree, so I've decided I'll be posting Alpha 2 once Mikan Island is finished. Looks good! I'm curious about those new Kanto islands. But, are there no mountains in the Orange Archipelago? I believe Navel and Kinnow have solitary mountains, not sure if anything else does. So, not meaning to nitpick, but the signpost you were using didn't seem to me like it was fitting in as well with the other tiles, so I re-did the sign itself along the lines I figures you were going for. Thoughts Kuroko? Yours is good too, but the symmetrical wood on either side looks more "sculpted" than "jagged". How's this? Ah, I get it now. It was meant to look as if it was like "driftwood" they'd turned into a sign. It feels much more relaxed that way, nice improvement!