Welcome to the dio world | dio Only for You. Treat yourself – or your friends and family – to the zest of life from the dio world. Christmas, Easter and the four seasons – you will set the tone for special occasions. And let yourself continually be inspired by dio articles that are always in season. dio products will accompany you for a long time. Carefully designed and selected, high-quality workmanship, responsible choice of materials and at a fair price. A combination that invites you to discover more. You really love the high-quality trend and decorative items sold under the "dio Only for You." brand label. And you are delighted with the exclusive gift bags and boxes in the "dio Paper" stationery range. So are you curious to know who selects and creates the products for both brands? It's the people who work at Dragimex Handels AG in Norderstedt near Hamburg. 40 experts in design, trends, logistics and sales. Working for you with two goals in mind: we hope to surprise you with fresh, new, creative trend and decorative items for all seasons and for every occasion. And we make sure that retailers can rely on products arriving quickly and safely. The careful selection of products is the be-all and end-all. Dragimex employees travel abroad several times a year in order to track down the best product ideas. Our in-house design draws inspiration from many sources. The design team has a flair for translating creative ideas into high-quality products. One thing is true of all Dragimex trend and decorative items: they have a little something extra. And this quality is worthy of two strong brand labels: "dio Only for You." and "dio Paper". Tracking down the most beautiful design ideas worldwide – that has been my mission for more than 25 years. This same passion flows into the development of my own designs. Trend and decorative articles with heart and soul – this is the world of dio. Every present spreads even more joy with matching gift bags and boxes made of printed paper. Dragimex is now also the right point of contact for this product range. Get to know our new "dio Paper" business line. Our fresh stationery range features an impressive selection of seasonal and year-round designs with a large number of unique in-house developments. Ob direkt für die „dio Only for You.“ Trend- und Dekoartikel oder für jedes andere Präsent – mit den „dio Paper“ Geschenktüten und -boxen werten Sie alle Produkte durch eine stilvolle Verpackung auf. Buy "dio Paper" from our specialist retail shop! As a private customer, you can obtain dio products exclusively and directly from your specialist retailer. With dio’s exclusive designs you can set highlights. In the dio shop look out for the red – which is the symbol for products, which are only available from dio. Order dio products in our specialist retail shop! Please contact us. As we would like to address you personally by name, we would be delighted if you would also enter your name here. This is of course optional.