MidCamp is looking for community members just like you to speak to our Drupal audience! MidCamp will be offering both 30-min and 60-min session slots in 2019. Our 30-min slots can be great for first-time presenters or for experienced presenters who'd like to test out a new session idea (or the new DrupalCon session length). Session submission is now closed. Thanks to all who submitted proposals! Ready to submit a session proposal? Create a MidCamp 2019 account in order to submit. MidCamp is soliciting sessions geared toward beginner through advanced Drupal users, as well as end users and business owners. Please see our session tracks page for full descriptions of the kinds of talks we are looking for, and view our speaker terms and conditions page to see what you’re getting into. We encourage experienced speakers to submit talks for a beginner audience. Use a format that works for you and your topic: formal talk, panel, short documentary, spoken word, musical, etc. Sessions can be 60 minutes or 30 minutes. We prefer for sessions to be presented in English. If you need a translator, please mention that. You may promote a project or organization you are working on if it is relevant, but please no sales pitches. Speakers are expected to follow our code of conduct. We're committed to fostering diversity on all levels at MidCamp. You can help make MidCamp more diverse by volunteering to be part of the session selection team. Tweet us at @midwestcamp to help. We try to coordinate session submission and selection as early as possible in order to allow speakers to make arrangements to attend early. Regardless of your skill level or experience with Drupal development, if you have a session you'd like to present at MidCamp but need help getting to camp or arranging accommodation, please let us know. We may have one keynote presenter who would be an invited speaker. All other speakers will go through the selection process. We are reaching out to individuals and groups for submissions, and we'd love if you did the same. We want you to submit a talk too. MidCamp follows an anonymized session selection process. We believe blind selection will help remove subconscious biases from the selection process. A volunteer who is NOT on the selection team will anonymize and remove personally identifying information and gendered pronouns from abstracts/bios. The team will make the first round of selections from the anonymized submissions. A second round will then make sure we have not selected speakers multiple times (excluding panel participants). Speakers will receive a free ticket to the event. Travel and accommodation costs can be prohibitive for speakers. If you have a session you'd like to present at MidCamp but need help getting to camp or arranging accommodation, please let us know. Need-based scholarships will be available. We are not yet able to pay speakers for their time.