Any info on 'Silver Coast' area? Discussion in 'Buying Overseas Property' started by emily, Sep 5, 2006. My husband, Dave, and I (ages- 59 & 61 ) retired last year and intend to buy a property in Portugal later in the year. This will mean selling our property in the UK, but we do have a static caravan here where we can stay when we're visiting relatives or just plain feeling homesick. We like the Algarve but have decided that it's not really for us, partly because of cost but mainly because we'd like somewhere a bit quieter. We would love to live in an area which has good walking possibilities, but at the same time don't want to live right out in the sticks. I'm continually on Portuguese estate agents web sites and have been looking at properties around Obidos or Leiria. I'd be grateful if someone could give us some information on these areas e.g. cost of living, scenery, climate,( bearing in mind that we live in Cumbria and it's brass monkeys here at the moment). I?m sure you?ll find many helpful suggestions from people on here. I myself live in Greece and so am not much help to you at this time. May I suggest that you also post something on the countries forum, to find out exactly what people who have moved already think and feel about everything, or at least its a good way of being in contact with others, who have like minded ideas. All the best and good luck in your move. You've chosen a great area to look. We have personally invested on a development just south of Obidos Lagoon and it's beautiful. In terms of climate - you can expect temperatures cooler than the Algarve because of the breezes coming off the Atlantic. Average temperatures will be around 28C in the summer and drop to around 15C in the winter. Cost of Living is cheaper than UK - expect to pay around 20 euros pp for a 2 course meal with wine. The supermarkets are cheaper and we find that we can complete a weekly shop for the Euro equivalent ie 80 euros instead of £80! Avoid Praia del Rey if you want to be away from the crowds - it's full of golfers and quite costly. Obidos Lagoon is very picturesue and it is being landscaped to include a cycle and walking track, jettys for fishing etc.