Please note items on sale are not exchangeable or refundable. Montaigo uses Australia Post to offer the fastest and most reliable delivery possible. We post all orders in “Express Post – Guaranteed “Next Day Delivery” Satchel Bags. Orders in the metropolitan area’s should be received within 3 business days and regional areas 2-5 business days. Items will only be dispatched and delivered Monday to Friday, excluding Public Holidays. International orders are sent with registered Australia post, estimated international delivery time Is 1-3weeks standard, or express2-8days. For International shipping we do not however have any control over shipping times internationally once it has left the store. IF YOU NEED SOMETHING URGENTLEY PLEASE CONTACT US 08 82951866. Please notify us of your intention to return any item within 24 hours of delivery via e-mail. All claims need an authorisation number from our dispatch team in order for your claim to be processed. We are able to offer an exchange in size and colour and are happy to exchange item for a credit voucher if the item is deemed inappropriate. We are unable to offer a refund unless the claim is in accordance with the fair trade practices act. The item is then recognised as faulty and incurs a refund. Before we dispatch your order, we personally inspect your items and carefully pack them to ensure they leave and arrive in perfect condition. In the event that your goods are not in satisfactory condition please contact our team immediately. We will happily exchange your size and colour if the item has not been worn, washed or damaged in anyway. Please ensure that all original swing tags are intact. Exchanges are subject to availability and also need confirmation from our dispatch team with the issue of an authorisation number. This as to be completed within 7 days of receiving your goods. We are happy to offer a credit note if you change your mind once you have received your purchase. Please adhere to exchange policy. All online payments are made through PayPal. We accept the following credit cards, visa, mastercard and Please note, our dispatch team will e-mail order confirmation and availability within 24 hours. If you have queries regarding your order please contact the team via e-mail or phone 08 8295 1866. Your privacy is of upmost importance to Montaigo. We do not share or sell information to third parties, nor use personnel information for any reason other than it’s intended use. Your details will only be used to provide with the latest updates and news from Montaigo that we believe will be of relevance to you. You may request to have your details removed at any time and we will comply immediately. Your details will not be added to a mailing list unless you give us permission to do so and we will not use your e-mail address or other personal information for any other purpose. We will not disclose your information to any other parties without your consent, unless we are required to do so by law. We cannot accept responsibly for external sites that are linked to or from the Montaigo site and you are advised to review their individual privacy statement.