Stately palm trees reach to the blue sky. The city of Split, and majestic mountains, far off in the distance. Looking up from Trogir’s network of little streets. Cheery lemons await picking, or just admirers. A tiny church, off in the distance. Silhouette of Kairos (the god of the fleeting moment), modeled after a 3rd-century bas-relief found in the town. These are beautiful. Lucky you! Lucky indeed, Caitlin. When we walk out among the buildings adorned with coats of arms, strolling the city’s labyrinthine lanes, I have to pinch myself that I’ve been in such a special city for over a month. The friendly people here make Trogir all the more wonderful. Jen, I agree with you that perpetually sunny skies can get a bit overwhelming. I felt the same way this past fall, visiting sunny Nevada. Sometimes I just yearned for a rain cloud or two. I suppose the “grass is always greener.” I liked your line that once again the “blue skies hold magic” for you. Some great looking up shots, Tricia. Love the one between the houses, with the lamp in, and that cat shot is wonderful. Thanks, Jo! We do a lot of looking up here because a lot of the fun details are hidden up there. Tricia I so loved your blue skies today. It has been the usual 300 days of rain followed by a day of sunshine. This is the rain-forest area so we must accept the rain but right now I do believe I have webbed feet. V. Soon you’ll be admiring all the emerald beauty around you! Those date palms set against blue skies is something to be cheery about. What a beautiful place to choose for home away from home. How long is this stay? Lynne, I didn’t know that those were date palms! Thanks for providing that botanical tidbit. We’ll be returning to Germany/France in May or June. (We can only stay in the Schengen Zone for 90 days at a time.) Since tourist season will be picking up here in the coming weeks and months, we’ll probably flit on off to another home away from home. There are so many lovely options – Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Albania? Another spot in Croatia? We’ll see. I am sad at the thought of leaving Trogir, though, as we’ve met some really kind people and are starting to feel a bit like locals. Tricia Mitchell is spending some time in Trogir and exploring Dalmatia and she has written some very interesting posts, which are recommended reading! The blue skies are a striking background for all your beautiful photos. Everything looks good against a clear blue sky! My favorites are the flags. Hi Marilyn, blue is such a regal color – fitting for Trogir’s magnificent architecture! I also find the Croatian flag to be quite striking, especially contrasted with that column and centuries-old buildings. Mark, I have to pinch myself whenever I see so much vibrant life here, even during these late winter months. I am pleased to find you via “Our Adventure in Croatia”. Stunning pics! Tina, the feeling is mutual. Thanks for your flattering feedback and for visiting! In what part of Serbia do you live? I live in the South East. Near Nis. We are kinda distant neighbors. Indeed :) – we might be heading that way – we shall see. So much to explore in this region! How long have you lived there? This time it is a long term stay. (maybe permanent.). We only just arrived in Nov (2012). But we were here two previous times for 5 months each tip. I am getting my bearings. :) Very Challenging with a toddler! Wow, I can imagine how it must be challenging navigating new customs with a little one! Are you speaking multiple languages to your child? Yes, but she cannot speak yet. In time she will be bi-lingual. Ah, beautiful Tricia, croation skies are different than californian skies ,I can see. Enjoy! I’ll have to read up on why the color varies so, Cornelia. The winter light is of course quite different here on the seaside than in Germany. The winter side is usually more bluish,, and the place where you are is usually more yellowish and reddish, talking in photography terms. It all depends on the temperature and the reflection of the sky, just a simple explanation so far. I wonder why that part of the world has such intense blue skies! The puzzled cat and the soaring seagull are my favourite picks Tricia. I thought that too, Madhu. I’ll have to ask my meteorologist friend.