Literacy - The children will be reading Rooftoppers by Katherine Randell this term and will be basing some of their writing around this book. The first genre we will be studying will be non-chronological reports. This writing will be linked in with the famous scientist Charles Darwin and the animals that inhabit the Galapagos Islands. Numeracy - The key concepts being taught this term are: multiplication and division, fractions and decimals and percentages. They will be drawing on their times tables knowledge to support them so it is extremely important that your child is practising these regularly. Beat your score will run alongside the main numeracy teaching and the different sheets will be uploaded to support home learning. Science – Forces will be the first unit of science learning this term. . Alongside this, the children will be using their scientific enquiry skills through planning and conducting experiments, writing conclusion and making scientific predictions. History – The Victorians. The children will be studying different historical sources to draw conclusions about what life was like throughout the period. Geography – This term the children will be developing their map skills. They will be looking closely at Ordinance Survey maps to learn the different keys and then create their own maps using what they have learned. Art – We will be studying William Morris, a prominent Victorian artist. The children will creating designs using inspiration from the natural world and then printing those designs into 'wallpaper'. P.E – Tag rugby, Netball and dance. Computing – E-safety and coding. Music – We will begin this term with understanding how to compose our own music in groups and will then move onto singing. R.E – Christianity and Buddhism. PSHE – Personal, social and health education (PSHE) helps to give children the knowledge, skills and understanding they need to lead confident, healthy and independent lives. It aims to help them understand how they are developing personally and socially, tackling many of the moral, social and cultural issues that are part of growing up. Our P.E. days are on: Wednesday (outdoor) and Friday (indoor).