front dust jacket CONTENTS front cover title page Our Old Nursery Rhymes The original tunes harmonized by Alfred Moffat Illustrated by H. Willebeek Le Mair Augener Ltd. London For the Book Trade A. & C. Black London G. Schirmer New York frontispiece Copyright, 1911, by Augener Limited contents Contents Page Pussy cat, pussy cat5 Mary had a little lamb7 Sing a song of sixpence9 Little Jack Horner11 Ding dong bell13 Three blind mice15 Here we go round the mulberry bush17 Three little kittens19 Pat-a-cake21 Mary, Mary, quite contrary23 Lucy Locket25 I love little pussy27 Baa, baa, black sheep29 Humpty dumpty31 O where is my little dog gone?33 Georgy-Porgy35 Little Miss Muffet37 Dickory, dickory dock39 Girls and boys come out to play41 Jack and Jill43 Yankee Doodle45 Twinkle, twinkle, little star47 Little Bo-Peep49 Oranges and lemons51 Ride a cock horse53 What are little boys made of?55 There was a little man57 Little Boy Blue59 Polly put the kettle on61 Hush-a-by Baby63 pussycat -5- PUSSY CAT, PUSSY CAT, WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN? music [Listen] [MusicXML] “Pussy cat, pussy cat, where have you been?” “I’ve been to London to see the new Queen.” “Pussy cat, pussy cat, what did you there?” “I caught a little mouse under her chair.” -6- Mary lamb -7- MARY HAD A LITTLE LAMB. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Mary had a little lamb, Its fleece was white as snow, And ev’rywhere that Mary went The lamb was sure to go. He followed her to school one day, That was against the rule. It made the children laugh and play To see a lamb at school. 2. So the Teacher turned him out But still he lingered near, And waited patiently about Till Mary did appear; And then he ran to her and laid His head upon her arm As if he said “I’m not afraid, You’ll keep me from all harm.” 3. “What makes the lamb love Mary so?” The eager children cry, “O, Mary loves the lamb you know,” The Teacher did reply; “And you each gentle animal In confidence may bind, And make them follow at your call If you are always kind.” -8- Sixpence -9- SING A SONG OF SIXPENCE. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Sing a song of Sixpence A pocket full of rye; Four and twenty Blackbirds Baked in a pie; When the pie was open’d The birds began to sing, Oh, was not that a dainty dish To set before the King. 2. The King was in his counting-house Counting out his money, The Queen was in the parlour Eating bread and honey; The Maid was in the garden Hanging out the clothes, There came a little blackbird And pecked off her nose. -10- Jack Horner -11- LITTLE JACK HORNER. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Little Jack Horner Sat in a corner Eating his Christmas pie; He put in his Thumb And pulled out a plum And said “What a good boy am I!” -12- Ding Dong Bell -13- DING DONG BELL. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Ding dong bell! Pussy’s in the well! Who put her in? Little Tommy Green. Who pulled her out? Little Tommy Stout. What a naughty boy was that To drown poor pussycat, Who ne’er did any harm, But killed all the mice in father’s barn. -14- Three Blind Mice -15- THREE BLIND MICE. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Three blind mice, see how they run! They all ran after the farmer’s wife, Who cut off their tails with a carving knife, Did you ever hear such a tale in your life, As three blind mice! -16- Mulberry Bush -17- THE MULBERRY BUSH. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Here we go round the Mulberry bush, The Mulberry bush, The Mulberry bush; Here we go round the Mulberry bush On a cold and frosty morning. Verse 2. This is the way we wash our hands We wash our hands We wash our hands This is the way we wash our hands On a cold and frosty morning. Verse 3.4.5 sing: “dry our hands” “clap our hands” “warm our hands” -18- Three Little Kittens -19- THE THREE LITTLE KITTENS. music [Listen] [MusicXML] 1. Three little kittens they lost their mittens, And they began to cry, “Oh, mammy dear! We sadly fear, Our mittens we have lost.” “What! lost your mittens, you naughty kittens, Then you shall have no pie.” Miew, miew, miew, miew. 2. Three little kittens they found their mittens, And they began to cry, “Oh, mammy dear! See here, see here! Our mittens we have found.” “What! Found your mittens, you little kittens, Then you shall have some pie.” Purr, purr, purr, rr-rr. 3. The three little kittens put on their mittens And soon ate up the pie, “Oh, mammy dear! We greatly fear, Our mittens we have soiled.” “What! soiled your mittens, you naughty kittens,” Then they began to sigh, Miew, miew, miew, miew, Miew, miew, miew. 4. The three little kittens they washed their mittens, And hung them up to dry. “Oh, mammy dear! Look here, look here! Our mittens we have washed.” “What! washed your mittens, you darling kittens, But I smell a rat close by. Hush, hush! miew, miew, Miew, miew, miew.” -20- Pat-a-cake -21- PAT-A-CAKE. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Pat-a-cake pat-a-cake, baker’s man! That I will master as quick as I can Prick it and nick it and mark it with T And there will be plenty for baby and me For baby and me For baby and me And there will be plenty for baby and me. -22- Mary, Mary -23- MARY, MARY, QUITE CONTRARY. music [Listen] [MusicXML] “Mary, Mary, quite contrary, How does your garden grow?” “With silver bells and cockle-shells, And pretty maids all in a row.” -24- Lucy Locket -25- LUCY LOCKET. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Lucy Locket lost her pocket Kitty Fisher found it But ne’er a penny was there in’t Except the binding round it. -26- Little Pussy -27- I LOVE LITTLE PUSSY. music [Listen] [MusicXML] 1. I love little pussy, Her coat is so warm And if I don’t hurt her, She’ll do me no harm. 2. So I’ll not pull her tail, Or drive her away; But Pussy and I Together will play. 3. She will sit by my side And I’ll give her some food; And she’ll like me because I’m gentle and good. -28- Baa Baa -29- BAA! BAA! BLACK SHEEP. music [Listen] [MusicXML] “Baa! Baa! Black sheep, Have you any wool?” “Yes, marry have I, Three bags full; One for my master, And one for my dame, But none for the little boy That cries in the lane!” -30- Humpty Dumpty -31- HUMPTY DUMPTY. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall, Humpty Dumpty had a great fall. All the King’s horses and all the King’s men Couldn’t put Humpty Dumpty together again. -32- Oh Where -33- OH WHERE, OH WHERE IS MY LITTLE DOG GONE. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Oh where, oh where is my little dog gone Oh where, oh where can he be? With his ears cut short and his tail cut long Oh where, oh where is he? -34- George-Porgy Copyright 1912, by Augener Ltd. -35- GEORGY-PORGY. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Georgy-Porgy puddinggy pie; Kissed the girls and made them cry; When the boys came out to play Georgy-Porgy ran away. -36- Miss Muffet Copyright 1912, by Augener Ltd. -37- LITTLE MISS MUFFET. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Little Miss Muffet, She sat on a tuffet, Eating her curds and whey; Down came a spider, Which sat down beside her And frightened Miss Muffet away. -38- Dickory Dock Copyright 1912, by Augener Ltd. -39- DICKORY, DICKORY, DOCK. music [Listen] [MusicXML] 1. Dickory, Dickory, Dock! The mouse ran up the clock The clock struck one, The mouse ran down Dickory, Dickory, Dock! 2. Dickory, dickory, dare! The pig flew up in the air The man in brown Soon brought him down, Dickory, dickory, dare. -40- Girls and Boys Copyright 1912, by Augener Ltd. -41- GIRLS AND BOYS COME OUT TO PLAY. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Girls and boys come out to play, The moon doth shine as bright as day Leave your supper and leave your sleep And join your play-fellows down the street. Come with a whoop and come with a call And come with a good-will or not at all Up the ladder and down the wall A half penny loaf will serve us all. -42- Jack and Jill -43- JACK AND JILL. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Jack and Jill went up the hill To fetch a pail of water; Jack fell down and broke his crown, And Jill came tumbling after. -44- Yankee Doodle -45- YANKEE-DOODLE. music [Listen] [MusicXML] 1. Yankee doodle came to town, Upon a little pony, He stuck a feather in his cap And called it macaroni. Yankee doodle, doodle do, Yankee doodle dandy; All the lassies are so smart, And sweet as sugar candy. 2. Marching in and marching out, And marching round the town, O! Here there comes a regiment With Captain Thomas Brown, O! Yankee doodle, &c. 3. Yankee doodle is a tune That comes in mighty handy; The enemy all runs away At Yankee doodle dandy. Yankee doodle &c. -46- Twinkle Twinkle -47- TWINKLE, TWINKLE, LITTLE STAR. music [Listen] [MusicXML] 1. Twinkle, twinkle, little star How I wonder what you are: Up above the world so high Like a diamond in the sky When the blazing sun is gone When he nothing shines upon, Then you show your little light, Twinkle, twinkle, all the night. 2. Then the traveller in the dark Thanks you for your little spark, He could not see which way to go If you did not twinkle so. In the dark blue sky you keep, And often through my curtains peep, For you never shut your eye Till the sun is in the sky. -48- Bo-Peep -49- LITTLE BO-PEEP. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Little Bo-Peep has lost her sheep, And can’t tell where to find them: Leave them alone, and they’ll come home And bring their tails behind them. 2. Little Bo-Peep fell fast asleep And dreamt she heard them bleating. But when she awoke, she found it a joke. For they were still a-fleeting. 3. She took up her crook, intending to look, Determined for to find them; She found them indeed, but it made her heart bleed For they’d left their tails behind them. 4. She heaved a sigh, and wiped her eye And ran over hill and dale, O! And tried what she could, as a shepherdess should, To tack to each sheep its tail, O! -50- Oranges and Lemons -51- ORANGES AND LEMONS. music [Listen] [MusicXML] “Oranges and lemons,” say the bells of St. Clements; “You owe me five farthings,” say the bells of St. Martins; “When will you pay me?” say the bells of Old Bailey; “When I grow rich,” say the bells of Shoreditch; “When will that be?” say the bells of Stepney; “I do not know,” says the great bell of Bow; Here comes a candle to light you to bed, And here comes a chopper to chop off your head! -52- Ride a Cock-Horse -53- RIDE A COCK-HORSE. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Ride a Cock-horse To Banbury Cross, To see a fine lady ride on a white horse; With rings on her fingers And bells on her toes So she shall have music Wherever she goes. -54- Little Boys -55- WHAT ARE LITTLE BOYS MADE OF? music [Listen] [MusicXML] 1. What are little boys made of, made of? What are little boys made of? Frogs and snails and puppy dog’s tails, And such are little boys made of. Chorus. Frogs and snails and puppy dog’s tails, And such are little boys made of. 2. What are little girls made of, made of? What are little girls made of? Sugar and spice and all things nice, And such are little girls made of; Sugar and spice and all things nice, And such are little girls made of. 3. What are our young men made of, made of? What are our young men made of? Sighs and leers, and crocodile tears, And such are our young men made of; Sighs and leers, and crocodile tears, And such are our young men made of. 4. What are young women made of, made of? What are young women made of? Ribbons and laces, and sweet pretty faces, And such are young women made of; Ribbons and laces, and sweet pretty faces, And such are young women made of. -56- Little Man -57- THERE WAS A LITTLE MAN. music [Listen] [MusicXML] 1. There was a little man, And he wooed a little maid, And he said “Little maid! will you wed, wed, wed? I have little more to say, Then will you? yea, or nay! For least said is soonest mended, ded, ded, ded!” 2. The little maid replied, (Some say a little sighed) But what shall we have to eat, eat, eat? Will the love that you're so rich in, Put a fire into the kitchen? Or the little God of Love turn the spit, spit, spit. 3. The little man replied, (Some say a little cried,) For his little heart was filled with sorrow, row; With the little that I have, I will be your little slave, And the rest my little dear we will borrow, row. 4. Thus did the little gent, Make the little maid relent, For her little heart began to beat, beat, beat; Through his offers were but small, She accepted of them all, Now she thanks her little stars for her fate, fate, fate. -58- Little Boy Blue -59- LITTLE BOY BLUE. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Little Boy Blue, come blow your horn, The sheep’s in the meadow, the cow’s in the corn. Where’s the boy that looks after the sheep? He’s under the haycock fast asleep. Will you wake him? No, not I! For if I do, he’ll be sure to cry. -60- Polly -61- POLLY PUT THE KETTLE ON. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Polly put the kettle on, Polly put the kettle on, Polly put the kettle on, We’ll all have tea. Sukey take it off again, Sukey take it off again, Sukey take it off again, They’ve all gone away. -62- Hush-a-By -63- HUSH-A-BY BABY. music [Listen] [MusicXML] Hush-a-by Baby on the tree-top, When the wind blows The cradle will rock; When the bough breaks The cradle will fall; Down comes baby, cradle and all! -64- end PRINTED BY EDMUND EVANS, LTD., ROSE PLACE, GLOBE ROAD, LONDON, E. back cover back dust jacket