The United States and the European Union have implemented additional economic sanctions against Russia in response to what they claim are continued and deliberate efforts to destabilize eastern Ukraine. Officials said these sanctions could be amended, suspended or repealed if Russia acts to ease tensions. The Census Bureau has issued an interim final rule reinstating export filing exemptions for temporary exports, which includes carnets, and goods previously imported under a temporary import bond and exported in the same condition. As a result, electronic export information for such shipments no longer needs to be filed in the Automated Export System. U.S. importers using the First Sale Rule can breathe a little easier after U.S. Customs and Border Protection reportedly halted potential changes that drew sharp opposition from the trade community. At the same time, CBP is likely to continue to closely scrutinize the use of this tool. U.S. Customs and Border Protection recently announced an enhancement to the filing of certain in-bond transactions in the Automated Commercial Environment and is working toward the filing of continuous and single transaction bonds in ACE as well. USTR has amended its notices requesting nominations for members to serve on the Intergovernmental Policy Advisory Committee on Trade and the Trade Advisory Committee on Africa to reflect that federally registered lobbyists are once again allowed to serve on these committees if they are appointed to represent the interests of a nongovernmental entity, a recognizable group of persons or nongovernmental entities, or state or local governments. The Mexican government on Aug. 29 issued a decree announcing a new set measures aimed at preventing the undervaluation of imported footwear and enhancing the productivity and competitiveness of domestic footwear manufacturers. In response to a request by the Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International industry association, the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security has initiated a foreign availability assessment to determine the foreign availability in China of anisotropic plasma dry etching equipment. The Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control announced Sept. 3 that a New York bank has agreed to remit $217,841 to settle potential civil liability for eight apparent violations of U.S. sanctions regulations. The Bureau of Industry and Security is seeking comments by Oct. 6 for its annual review of whether the foreign policy-based export controls in the Export Administration Regulations should be modified, rescinded or extended from January 2015 to January 2016. According to two industry sources, a filing exemption for exports shipped under ATA carnets will soon be restored, eliminating the need for electronic export information for such shipments to be filed in the Automated Export System as of Oct. 2. Exports from facilities operating under FTZ procedures amounted to $79.5 billion, the third straight record high and a 13.7 percent increase from 2012. Report Examines China’s Economic Challenges and Policy Implications for U.S. The report states that while some economists forecast that China will overtake the United States as the world’s largest economy within a few years, China’s ability to maintain a rapidly growing economy in the long run will depend largely on the ability of its government to manage certain challenges. The alleged dumping margins range from 33 percent to 267 percent, and 20 distinct countervailable subsidy programs are alleged. U.S. Trade Representative Mike Froman announced Aug. 25 that the U.S. is suspending for an additional four weeks the dispute settlement process in a CAFTA-DR labor enforcement case against Guatemala.