Η GMC παρουσιάζει την Nightfall έκδοση του Terrain που θα κάνει ντεμπούτο στην έκθεση της Νέας Υόρκης. Το μοντέλο ξεχωρίζει από την μαύρη γρίλια, τα μαύρα γυαλιστερά διακοσμητικά, τις μαύρες ράγες οροφής και τις μαύρες/αλομινένιες ζάντες 18″. Είναι διαθέσιμο σε τέσσερα εξωτερικά χρώματα (Onyx Black, Crimson Red Metallic, Graphite Gray Metallic και Summit White) και στο εσωτερικό διαθέτει το σύστημα ενημέρωσης και ψυχαγωγίας IntelliLink με οθόνη αφής 7″ και συνδεσιμότητα 4G LTE με Wi-Fi hotspot. Οι πωλήσεις του θα ξεκινήσουν από το φθινόπωρο. The News Ahead of its debut at the New York International Auto Show, GMC today introduced the 2017 GMC Terrain Nightfall Edition – a stylized special edition combining blacked-out exterior details and wheels, with popular technologies such as IntelliLink with available 4G LTE connectivity and Wi-Fi hotspot. It joins the Canyon Nightfall Edition and the all-new Sierra All Terrain X as the latest GMC vehicle to offer an exclusive, personalized appearance with the Terrain’s premium features and refinement. Product Details The Terrain Nightfall offers an edgy appearance with 18-inch machine-faced aluminum wheels and gloss black spokes, a charcoal grill with a gloss black surround and accents, gloss black front and rear fascia accents, gloss black rear license plate surround trim, gloss black outside mirrors and black luggage rails. Terrain Nightfall Edition will be offered on SLE-2 and SLT models with four exterior color options: Summit White, Onyx Black, Graphite Gray Metallic and Crimson Red Metallic. About the Terrain Coming off a record sales year in 2015, the restyled 2016 Terrain is a capable crossover with room for five, premium features and technologies that allow passengers to stay connected wherever the road or trail takes them. It also offers an EPA-estimated 32 mpg highway (FWD models) with the standard 2.4L engine. GMC IntelliLink with a 7-inch-diagonal color touchscreen is standard on the Terrain Nightfall Edition’s SLE-2 and SLT trims, along with available 4G LTE connectivity and Wi-Fi hotspot. The standard, GM MultiFlex rear seat can be moved fore or aft nearly eight inches (200 mm) for increased passenger comfort or more cargo room, including a maximum 63.9 cubic feet (1,810 liters) with the rear seat folded. A programmable power liftgate with a memory-stop function is available. Safety features include six standard air bags and a standard rear-vision camera. Available active safety features include Rear Cross Traffic Alert, Side Blind Zone Alert, Forward Collision Alert, Lane Departure Warning and Rear Park Assist. FAST FACTS • Terrain enjoyed record sales in 2015, with 112,030 deliveries • Terrain is GMC’s second-highest selling vehicle in 2015, behind only Sierra • Nearly half of Terrain customers are new to GMC • About 50 percent of Terrain customers are women – GMC’s highest rate of female buyers.