Below is general information about the contest with the specific amendments to be covered this year and the dates for competition up to the state level. Also, below is the official Oratorical Rules brochure to answer any questions. The Americanism Committee at Post 10 is able to provide practice time at the Legion Hall at 702 Pine Grove Road for contestants to prepare. We are able to coordinate practice times on evenings and weekends with committee members who can provide feedback to the contestant. It is also strongly recommend that contestants view recordings of prior national winners at https://www.legion.org/oratorical. The contest, open to US citizens or lawful resident under the age of 20 and currently enrolled in grade 9-12, is designed to provide the student with the opportunity to increase their knowledge of the US Constitution and with public speaking skills that can help them with advancement in their chosen profession. Complete rules are attached to this email and can be obtained by clicking the links below, contacting NC Department Headquarters or by visiting the national headquarters web page. North Carolina students begin their advance toward the national finals at their local high school. Each contestant gives an 8 to 10-minute prepared speech on what it means to be a citizen under the US Constitution. Each student must also speak from 3 to 5 minutes on an “assigned topic” drawn at the contest from a list of 4 predefined topics. This topic will be the same for all contestants in the contest once drawn. School winners have the opportunity to compete in and advance past county, district and division contests to reach the department contest. Department winners travel to The American Legion’s national headquarters in Indianapolis, Indiana where they can advance through 3 rounds of contests (quarter-finals, semi-finals and finals) to become the national champion. The national organization provides scholarships for those who compete in the 3 rounds in Indianapolis with the top 3 contestants receiving $18,000, $16,000 and $14,000. The assigned topic shall be drawn by the contest official in full view of the audience immediately before the last speaker begins delivery of his or her prepared oration and will be made known to the audience and each contestant approximately five (5) minutes prior to the time of delivery. The topic will be on some phase of the U.S. Constitution, selected from Articles and Sections as listed under assigned topics for the current year’s contest in this brochure. Amendment 2: A well-regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed. Amendment 15: Section 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude. Section 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation. Department Finals: 3/5/2017 (3/10/2017 snow date) Location not announced.