background : nickel - titanium ( ni - ti ) rotary instrument files are important devices in endodontics in root canal preparation . ni - ti file breakage is a critical and problematic issue and irrigation techniques were applied to decrease risk of file failure root . the aim of the present study was to compare the temperature gradient change of different irrigation solutions with ni - ti rotary instrument system during root canal preparation and also to define their effects on the file failure.materials and methods : a novel computerized instrumentation was utilized and thirty standard ( profile # 25/.04 ) files were divided into three groups and subjected to a filing in the root canal test . changes in temperature on teeth under constant instrumental conditions with custom - designed computerized experimental apparatus were measured by using a temperature sensor bonded to the apical hole . a rotary instrument for canal preparation in three series of solution was used and the changes in temperature after each solution were compared . finally , the file failure results were mentored according to each step of test . comparisons were performed between group status clinically by using anova ( t ) test , once the sample showed up normal and differences of p<0.01 were considered significant . all data collected were computerized and analyzed for frequency , distribution , and statistical description.results:there was a decrease in the temperature of the instruments , which were immersed in 5% naocl , when compared with the water group ( p<0.01 ) . there was also a decrease in the temperature of the instruments immersed in water , when compared with the no solution group ( p<0.01 ) . test results showed that sodium hypochlorite , water , or air of root canals does alter the properties of gradual temperature change and contributes to the failure of the instruments.conclusion:by immersing the file in 5% naocl , the temperature gradient decreased and instrument failure was reduced .