Podcasts are fantastic, they offer you an easy, entertaining and efficient way to glean tips, tricks, and advice from thought leaders in just about every walk of life. A podcast doesn’t require you to be sedentary. No, not at all, you can listen to one while you meditate, work out on the treadmill or while commuting. Now that 2019 is less than 100 days away, this might be an ideal time to evaluate where you stand financially at the moment, it’s also a great time to plan and set financial goals for the next year. I’m quite enthusiastic about content (especially financial content) that’s both entertaining and educational. This podcast has been around since 2012. And since then, it has been using the science of play to make finance more approachable, interesting, and fun. So this is not like your stern-faced college accounting professor who drones on and on in a too-cold lecture hall making you so bored that you want to sleep. While some podcasts hope to be the final expert in the chain of money lessons, Stacking Benjamins simply hopes to introduce you to the broad spectrum of ideas, concepts, and technologies that can help you lock in a better financial future. In every episode, So Money takes complex money problems and break it down to the everyday man. The Tim Ferriss show is currently the #1 business podcast on all of Apple Podcasts, and it’s been ranked #1 out of 500,000+ podcasts on many occasions. It is the first business podcast to have more than 100 million downloads, and it has been selected as “Best of” Apple Podcasts for three years running (In 2016 under “most downloaded”). It has now surpassed 300 million downloads and readers of Fortune Magazine‘s Term Sheet recently selected the show as their top business podcast. The show boasts of interviewing the likes of Arnold Schwarzenegger, Jamie Foxx, Edward Norton, Tony Robbins, Maria Popova, Peter Thiel, Marc Andreessen, Amanda Palmer, Malcolm Gladwell, Vince Vaughn and many more. It lives up to the name “side hustle” by becoming the podcast for people who want to create multiple streams of revenue with their side hustles. Each time you tune in you’ll learn new tips for your own side business. Nick Loper, the show host, used to work full-time for a giant corporation and while doing that, he built his side business at nights and on weekends. In his podcast, he tries to show you how you can do it too. Here’s what’s on this podcast’s homepage ”Life is short. Stop dreaming about the good life and start living it now!” And indeed life’s short you never know when it’ll end; So why not start now? Financial adviser Joshua J. Sheats, through his podcast, provides the information and motivation needed to significantly and permanently improve your financial life. Through stories and interviews, he takes his listeners on a journey toward financial health. Sheats helps listeners work on their financial issues and build wealth with proven strategies and tools. Entrepreneur Pat Flynn got laid off from his job when he least expected it, and as a way to survive he began to learn about passive income, his passive income streams quickly made him somewhere around $3million in revenue; these days he easily makes more than $100,000 per month. So, on his podcast, Pat teaches you proven strategies for running an online business and optimizing it for passive income. This podcast is hosted by American businesswoman who goes by the name Sophia Amoruso. At age 22, she started an online eBay store selling vintage clothing and other items, which she named "Nasty Gal Vintage". Over the years, she’s weathered a lot of storms and came out triumphant financially. This experiences and more are what she brings to bear in her podcast where she digs deep into the realm of entrepreneurship. Understandably women CEOs are more attracted to her but the podcast can help just about anyone become shrewder and wiser with money. Formerly, David Stein used to be a former institutional investor. Now he is focused on helping DIY investors make smart choices. Paula Pant, host of the Afford Anything podcast is a Real estate investor, blogger, and influencer. On her show, she speaks to experts who answer questions on finance, real estate, entrepreneurship, personal development and more. She’s famous for saying: you can do anything you want with money, but not everything.