Bunche received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1950, the first African American so honored. He was involved in the formation of the United Nations and received the Medal of Freedom in 1963. Catt was the president of the National American Woman Suffrage Association and founded the League of Women Voters. Her campaign for women’s rights led to the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution in 1920. Haffen, popularly known as the “father of the Bronx,” was the first New York City borough’s first president. He was the son of a German brewer and is credited for having the vision to develop the Grand Concourse. Hughes served as the thirty-sixth governor of New York, United States Secretary of State and Chief Justice of the United States. Hughes was the Republican candidate for president in 1916, losing the election to Woodrow Wilson. A Cricket player from the British West Indies, McMorris made his living as a messenger for an oil company. He lived in Harlem and was very involved in celebrity tournaments, fund raising events and the promotion of the sport. Nicknamed “the little flower” (the English translation of his first name), LaGuardia served as the mayor of New York during the Great Depression and World War II. New York’s airport is named in his honor. McCullagh rose through the ranks of the New York City Police Department to become its first chief of police, overseeing all five boroughs. After serving a year in the position, he moved on to supervise security in Cuba following the Spanish American War. Known as New York’s “master builder,” Moses was responsible for the construction of many of the highways, bridges and parks that connect the five boroughs. He built expressways that accommodated increasing automobile traffic and developed the sites of the 1939 and 1964 World’s Fairs. Stanton was a leading figure of the early women’s rights movement, conducting the first convention in Seneca Falls, New York, in 1848. She wrote many of Susan B. Anthony’s speeches, and her published articles served as the voice of the movement.