CHARLES H. MEISNER, one of the prosperous and highly-esteemed business men of Birnamwood, Shawano county, was born in Newton township, Manitowoc Co., Wis., February 14, 1860, and is a son of Frederick and Magarette (Steltzer) Meisner, both natives of Germany. Frederick Meisner was born February 5, 1825, in Mechlenburg, Germany, and after the death of his father he, with his mother and the rest of the family, came to America in 1849, settling in Manitowoc county. Here the mother lived to the good old age, dying in 1888. The parental family comprised six children, namely John, Frederick, Joseph, Dora, Josephine and Mary. The mother of our subject was born in Bavaria about the year 1832. Her mother died in Germany, and about 1850 she came to America with her father and her three brothers; John, William and Nicholas—and three sisters—Mary, Cathrena and Lena. Her father was a farmer by occupation. Frederick Meisner had six children of whom Charles H., Frederick J. and Henry are living; William died when four years old; John when an infant, and a daughter, Bertha, when nine months old. This worthy couple at present reside on a farm purchased by Mr. Meisner some thirty-seven years ago, and which is situated near Manitowoc City. They are consistent members of the German Lutheran Church, and Frederick Meisner is a stanch Republican, although he has never taken a very active part in political matters. Charles H. Meisner was reared to the life of a farmer's boy, obtaining his education in the common schools, and assisting his father upon the farm until he was of age. He then spent several summers working upon a farm. In June, 1884, in company with John Roepke, he came to Birnamwood, where he bought out a store owned by Hunter and Cole, and organized the firm of Roepke & Meisner, proprietors of a general mercantile store. In 1889 they commenced the manufacture of lumber, buying and repairing a mill and furnishing employment to fifteen men, on an average. Both these gentlemen have built themselves handsome residences, and have dealt extensively in real estate, now owning some 1,300 acres of timber and farming lands. Charles H. Meisner was married January 4, 1884 to Miss Meta Pleuss, who was born in the same town and county as her husband. She is a daughter of Frederick and Mary (Levereriz) Pleuss, natives of Germany; who came to, America about 1850. The father; who was a farmer, died in 1877. They had a family of five daughters—Mary, Lizzie, Meta, Augusta and Minnie. Both the parents had children by former marriages. Mr. and Mrs. Meisner have no children. In politics our subject is a good Republican, but has always been too busy attending to his own affairs to become an office-seeker. However, his fellow-citizens have shown their appreciation of his worth by making him town treasurer, and electing him to the minor offices. He was postmaster for eight years, and is one of the trustees of the village. He and his wife are members of the German Lutheran Church, and are held in high esteem.