Joshua R. Gall serves as Director of the Longhorn Concert Bands, Assistant Director of the Longhorn Band, and Director of the Longhorn Pep Band at The University of Texas at Austin. In the Butler School of Music he also teaches academic courses in wind band literature and marching band methods. Prior to his appointment at The University of Texas, Professor Gall served as a Doctoral Conducting Associate at The University of Florida. Professor Gall previously taught in the public schools of Virginia and Florida where ensembles that he conducted were chosen for VMEA, FMEA and Midwest Band & Orchestra Clinic performances. In addition to his work in the public schools, he has regularly designed for and taught some of the world’s finest marching ensembles. His extensive background in the marching arts has allowed him to work with the ten-time World Champion Cadets Drum Corps, Genesis Drum Corps, and the 2016 DCI World Champion Bluecoats Drum Corps where he is currently on staff. As an entrepreneur, Professor Gall actively contributes to the music industry as an owner of Ultimate Drill Book which supports programs such as The Bluecoats, Santa Clara Vanguard, Phantom Regiment, the U.S. Army All-American Marching Band and over 50 other high school and collegiate programs around the country. He also has an extensive background in recording and production as he coordinated a family-owned recording and production company for 12 years that specialized in the recording of the performing arts. Professor Gall oversaw the production of over 4,000 audio and video recordings that were distributed nationally and included events such as the Richmond Symphony Concert Series, USSBA National Championships, WGI Regional Championships, All-Virginia Band and Orchestra Concerts, State Marching Festivals, and approximately seventy other events annually. A native of central Virginia, Professor Gall received his Bachelor of Music Education Degree from Virginia Commonwealth University and the Master of Music Degree from The University of Florida in Instrumental Conducting where his primary conducting teachers were Dr. Terry Austin, Professor Daniel Myssyk and Dr. David Waybright. He is currently completing his Doctor of Philosophy degree in Music Education with a cognate in Instrumental Conducting from the University of Florida. Professor Gall’s professional affiliations include the College Band Directors National Association, Texas Music Educators Association, Texas Bandmasters Association and Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia.