If you are having problems with Brightbingo and would like to either find out your rights, who to contact or make a complaint then use Resolver to make the process simpler. Resolver is not affiliated to, linked with or otherwise endorsed by Brightbingo. Using Resolver, you can submit an issue about 1 service offered by Brightbingo. Your case will be sent to the correct person or team at Brightbingo and escalated at the correct times, to the correct person, if required. You can use the Resolver system to help you at every stage. You can use it to escalate your issue to all two levels of Brightbingo complaints. If your complaint is not resolved by Brightbingo, you can then package it up and send it to the eCOGRA. Want to start a complaint about Brightbingo? How do I make a Brightbingo complaint using Resolver? If you want to make a complaint about Brightbingo using Resolver, then the process could not be simpler. Read and understand your consumer rights then answer a few simple questions to help Resolver prepare your email (which you can review and edit) that clarifies the issue, and gets the best from your complaint. You will be given the option to make your complaint by phone via our mobile app. How does my Brightbingo case file work? Resolver allows you to keep a record of any email correspondence sent between you and Brightbingo, as well any phone calls made via our mobile app. You can make private notes about your case as well as set yourself reminders. Furthermore, Resolver sends you notifications when it's time to escalate your case to help keep things on track. If you cannot resolve your complaint with Brightbingo, Resolver enables you to escalate it to the relevant regulatory body – the contents of your case file is sent as supporting evidence. Is it free to make a Brightbingo complaint via Resolver? To help you get the best response from your Brightbingo complaint Resolver guides you through every step of the process. To help you get the best response from your Brightbingo complaint, Resolver can put you in touch directly with the best person or department you need to speak to. We will also advise you how to word your complaint in order to get a swift resolution to your issue. In addition, Resolver will help you record all calls and correspondence you make via our app and website. Plus, we will help you gather all your information into a case file should you wish to escalate your Brightbingo complaint.