It was another great learning for me. I had a pleasant surprise experience regarding my tax matter today. Every March 15th is the kakutei shinkoku, the final tax return deadline. In the middle of the busiest fiscal year end job rush, I managed to submit P/L, B/S, shiwake, i.e. journal and all the necessary reports, except for filling the gensen choushu zeigaku (withholding tax amount) and the bank account detail on the kakutei shinkoku sho, the final return. I realized about the fact when the kampukin, the tax refund had not been deposited to my specified bank account until today. I immediately checked the copies of my document submitted to the tax office and realized my omission. However, you may want to know that you can claim the kampukin tax refund for five years since the 1st January next year of your desired accounting year ending on the 31st December. Usually, kampukin should be deposited in my bank account latest by the end of April. In this case, though, I have already submitted gensen choshu hyo, withholding skip, at the time of kakutei shinkoku. So I called the tax office and sought their advice on how to go about my kampukin. Their answers and responses were surprising. Firstly, tax officers whoever attended my call were very polite, attentive, and kind. I hardly felt a slight annoyance in their tone when I asked their favor in letting me know the procedure to tackle "the late claim of kampukin." Secondly, I only had to tell my surname to assist their search of my record (not even required of "My Number".) While my name "Deshmukh (デシュムク)" is unique at least in the eastern part of Fukuoka city and suburban, I don't know how they search the caller's file so quickly. Perhaps they detect the telephone number and match with the name? Finally, the person in charge of my tax report called me back within five minutes as promised, telling me he was planning to contact me for the same regards, informing me that I forgot to write necessary information of kampukin refund at the time of kakutei shinkoku. Moreover, he offered me that he would fill the possible kampukin amount already in a postcard or like official form(s) and send it to my residence address, so that what all I need to do would be simply write down my bank details to receive the refund and then place my stamps thereon. He even apologized me that the process is likely to take some time that even if I send back aforementioned necessary information immediately, it might be deposited maximum in July. I don't know what would be our destiny if the same happened in India!