I help software companies turn their audience from visitors to customers by creating and delivering compelling multi-media content. You concentrate on building a great product. Let me tell your story. I've been in the IT/software development/security space for close to ten years. My industry experience lends itself to my ability to plan and execute compelling content for technical audiences and on technical topics. If you need technical content that's not full of jargon or impossible to understand, I'm your man. My job is to make your audience love you and that's what I love to do. My personal interests involve beer, bowling, and all things football and hockey. If you have any writing needs for those topics, feel free to hit me up! Quick tips on how to write more secure C# code. A description plus best practices and pitfalls for a key construct of the C# programming language. A description of a key programming construct of the C# programming language. A post explaining the downsides of classroom training about software security. A better method for training is discussed. This post compares and rates different web development frameworks based on their default security capabilities. This piece discusses the impact women have had on the software engineering industry. Women that have all had a major impact on the industry are introduced. A thought leadership blog post explaining the mental shift necessary for companies to safely implement "DevOps" within their organization. This post was written for Stackify and picked up by DZone for syndication. It walks developers through building their first serverless application in the cloud. Written for ASPE Training and picked up by DZone for syndication. This piece walks the reader through a late-night in the office and what they do to prevent it from happening again. Feature flags allow developers to control what the end users see. They're used to roll out new features gradually. Here's how to secure them. This post takes the reader on a tour of an automated car factory to teach how three options for building software differ. How can the problem of delivery software faster and safer be compared to a powerful sports car? Read on to find out.