In order to increase safety, enhance quality and minimize sprayed concrete waste, Trafikverket (The Swedish Transport Administration) requires all operators that will perform concrete spraying in the their major tunnel projects e.g. E4 Stockholm Bypass (E4 Förbifart Stockholm) and West Link (Västlänken) to be certified. Trafikverket will certify all operators that goes through and passes a training and assessment program including both a Theory part and a Practical part, as well as hands in a proof of spraying experience. The certificate is valid for 5 years. Trafikverket has accredited Edvirt® to hold Theory part, meaning the course including theory and concrete lab tests. Operators are required to attend and pass both courses (Theory part and Practical part) to receive Trafikverket's certification 'Sprutning med sprutbetong inom Trafikverket' ('Spraying concrete in the Swedish Transport Administration's projects). For the Practical part course, please see “Practical part”. For questions, do not hesitate to contact our training coordinators at info@edvirt.com or +46 (0)31 47 77 47. See upcoming course dates on the booking page. Trafikverket has accredited Edvirt® to run the Practical part course, meaning the course including training and assessment using a virtual reality sprayed concrete simulator. Operators are required to attend and pass both courses (Theory part and Practical part) to receive Trafikverket's certification 'Sprutning med sprutbetong inom Trafikverket' ('Spraying concrete in the Swedish Transport Administration's projects). For the Theory part course, please see “Theory part”. The Practical part i.e. practical training and assessment with simulator will be performed by operators training and proving their capabilities using Edvirt's® VR Shotcrete Simulator™. The VR Shotcrete Simulator™ is a renowned simulator, used globally for training, assessment and certification of sprayed concrete operators. Edvirt® and the VR Shotcrete Simulator™ has been evaluated and accredited by Trafikverket. Each operator have to go through 17 training steps in the simulator, proving certain capabilities specified by Trafikverket in their training and certification plan. Each operator should account for 40 hrs going through simulator training and assessment. Note: Companies that are contracted by Trafikverket in the E4 Stockholm Bypass project and send their sprayed concrete operators through both courses (Theory and Practical part) may be able to retrieve back the full course fee for the Prac from Trafikverket, when invoicing Trafikverket during the E4 Stockholm Bypass project. For more information, please contact Trafikverket- Project leader, Ulrika Hamberg at +46 70 458 01 75 or ulrika.hamberg@trafikverket.se.