Our Palladium Tank Plating Kit – 1 Litre is a great option for re-plating white gold jewellery. The price of the kit includes 1 Litre of our Palladium Tank Plating Solution which contains 6 grams of palladium per litre and can be shipped outside the UK and EU, making it a good substitute for our transport restricted rhodium and platinum plating processes. Our Palladium Tank Plating Solution deposits a bright white, hard-wearing layer of palladium and is an excellent alternative to rhodium for re-plating white gold wedding and engagement rings. Another notable feature of our palladium plating system is that you can safely palladium plate items of jewellery that include materials such as pearl or coral without having to mask them out, as our Palladium Tank Plating Solution will not etch materials made from calcium carbonate. This was the case with the pearl and silver pendant in the picture; the whole of the pendant, pearls included, was immersed in our Palladium Plating Solution without any negative effect on the pearls. For a guide to setting up your Palladium Tank Plating Kit you can follow the same instructions for our Rhodium Tank Plating Kit which can be found in our Electroplating Manual by clicking HERE. This kit (or any of our other kits, equipment or solutions) is not suitable for plating on to aluminium or titanium and therefore can’t be used to plate iPhones and other similar products. If you are planning on palladium tank plating on to copper and its alloys including brass and bronze you’ll need to brush plate a barrier layer of gold flash to protect your tank plating solution. In between uses of your palladium tank plating solution, it’s a good idea to cover your solution with cling film to stop particles of duct and hair getting in as this will over time shorten the life of your solution. It will also reduce the frequency of having to filter your solution. Stepped voltage controlled via a selector switch enabling a range from 3 up to 12 volts. Maximum current is 3.0 amps. Perfect for powering the cleaning stage, removing the need to re-set the settings on your MF Rectifier from cleaning to plating. Palladium plating solution is agitated with a magnetic stirrer at the bottom of the beaker during plating. Mechanical agitation is a safer alternative to air agitation, as it eradicates any risk of the aerosol effect of the rhodium tank plating solution. Mechanical agitation keeps the plating solution moving over the surface of the item being plated in a consistent way, again maximising the efficiency of the tank plating process. Mechanical agitation avoids unnecessary oxidisation of the metal plating solution that air agitation will cause. Made bespoke from solid stainless steel and designed to be used in conjunction with the Plating Arm Clamp Fully conductive. Will not corrode and contaminate palladium tank plating solution. When used with clamp, can be moved up or down the stand in any position to fit any size of plating beaker. The advertised kit is using the 250ml kit. If you want to upsize to the 1 litre kit, you will need to remove the 250ml Plating Beaker, Mesh Electrode for 250ml Beaker, Stirring Bar (Mini) and 250ml of Palladium Tank Plating Solution from the kit list. You will then need to add the 1 Litre Plating Beaker, Mesh Electrode for 1 Beaker, Stirring Bar (Medium) and 1 litre of Palladium Tank Plating Solution.