Even if you know how to shop the sales to get the best prices, clothes still likely amount to a sizable portion of your annual budget. If you want tips on finding the best prices, check out our post How to Buy the Clothes You Want at Clearance Prices. It just makes good financial sense to make your clothing last as long as possible. Get the most life from your wardrobe with the following regimen. Use good hangers. Solid wood hangers help keep the shoulders in your jackets or sweaters intact. In contrast, wire or thin plastic hangers cause those annoying and unsightly bumps in the shoulders, stretching and warping. Do your laundry inside out. Color loss occurs in clothing not just from washing. However, from the clothes rubbing against each other. Therefore, to prevent jeans, pants, or any other items from fading as quickly, turn them inside out before washing. Stuff your shoes. Wad up a newspaper or packing paper and stuff them into your shoes and boots to help them keep their shape longer. Watch the fabric softener. Do not use fabric softener when washing workout or outdoor clothing designed to wick moisture. The fabric softener clogs the micropores in the clothing preventing them from wicking away sweat and moisture. Hang an indoor clothesline. Even if the sun is not out, or you live in an apartment, you can still hang a short indoor clothesline to dry socks, t-shirts, bras, underwear, and other items. This prevents damage and fading done to gentler materials in the dryer. It also prevents your clothing from breaking down in the dryer. A clothesline also has the bonus of saving you some money on electricity. Wash in cold water. To prevent the colors from fading from your favorite outfits, wash them in cold water and they will remain brighter much longer. Your clothes will get just as clean in cold water as in warm or hot water because it is the agitation of the washer, not the temperature of the water, which does the cleaning. It will also save you money on your energy bill because you will not have to run the water heater as much. Before you leave, save money on laundry detergent and other household products, print or load coupons to a store loyalty program below.