An eagerly awaited report from the World Health Organization (WHO) states that processed meats such as bacon and sausages cause cancer, and red meat likely does so too. The France-based International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), part of the WHO, put processed meats on the top of their “things that cause cancer list”, grouping them alongside tobacco, asbestos and diesel fumes, for which there is “sufficient evidence” of cancer links. Along the years, there have been many studies that linked processed and red meats with cancer (especially bowel cancer), but there were always some doubts floating about. Now, the 22-member panel analyzed animal experiments, studies of human diet and health, and cell mechanisms that could lead from these meats to cancer. The decision wasn’t unanimous though, and a “probably” still crept in to the report. Many studies show the links, both in populations of people and in tests that show how eating these foods can cause cancer, the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) said in its report, released in the Lancet medical journal. This could give you cancer. Photo by Niklas Rhose. “Overall, the Working Group classified consumption of processed meat as ‘carcinogenic to humans’ on the basis of sufficient evidence for colorectal cancer,” the report reads. “Additionally, a positive association with the consumption of processed meat was found for stomach cancer. The Working Group classified consumption of red meat as ‘probably carcinogenic to humans’,” it added. “The experts concluded that each 50 gram portion of processed meat eaten daily increases the risk of colorectal cancer by 18 percent,” the IARC said. “For an individual, the risk of developing colorectal cancer because of their consumption of processed meat remains small, but this risk increases with the amount of meat consumed,” said IARC’s Dr. Kurt Straif. Red meat was included in a lower category, which means that while there is evidence for it causing cancer, there is still quite a lot of room for debate. But while processed meat seems to be decidedly bad for your health, not everybody is convinced about red meat. The $95 billion U.S. beef industry has been preparing a retaliation for months, and they’ve been rallying numerous scientists to their cause – even some unafililiated with the meat industry. For now, the takeaway seems to be this: you need to stop eating processed meat. They have a number of damaging effects, including elevating stroke risk, raising cholesterol and, of course – cancer. If you absolutely can’t give it up, then reduce it. Quantity does matter, and less is, while not ideal, better than more. The same goes for red meat – if you must have it, don’t have it every day. It’s not sustainable, it’s bad for the animals, and it’s bad for you. We’re getting to a point where science is starting to understand what’s good for us and what’s not. Let’s make the science count, shall we?