Im definetely with some of the above posts when saying that they left the serious open ended. I knew up until then that this was supposed to be the final season but after seeing the last episode, I could see another see another season. So lame that the show was cancelled…..I had so much fun copying the ideas of the shows writers for all the parties! I am going to miss the Pakistani chick. What a body. Sweet dream! I had NO idea the series was canceled!!! This blows!!!! Why do they cancel the good shows and keep the worst!?!?!?!? So sad to see these characters say goodbye to these characters, this show had room to grow and to introduce more great actors. Depressing I find out having to google this while watching the show, realizing this didn’t seem like a season finale…more like a forever good-bye. This show is one of the Best they have made in a long time. It was a great ending,except that KT was ton down it made me cry. Couldn’t they just have remodled it honestly why do that and not give us a next season its messed up. UGH just sad to see it go. WE ALL LOVE YOU GREEK CAST!!!! “Greek” was probably the most realistic portrayal of Greek life on college campus that I have ever seen. Those were the best years of my life and a lot of the stuff on the show paralleled my own experiences. But I guess ABCFamily is more interested in bitchy little teenagers and all their drama. “Greek” will be missed. My wife and I made it a ritual to watch Greek together every week. We generally have different tastes when it comes to TV, but this was a great show that we both liked. The final episode was great, and they were wrong to cancel it. However, I have seen what happens when you take a show about school and take it to far (Saved by the Bell: The College Years). I guess it is good they didn’t go out like that. KT FOREVER! I loved this show, Greek was one of my absolute favorite shows. I am really sad they decided to cancel it and I have no idea why. I hope the cast move on to other things that I will enjoy in the future. I agree, as they could still show cappie and cassie..have them make visits etc…I think thye should continue it.. I thought it was a good ending saying goodbye. I had suspected this was the final season when they said “The Final Semester” and that their was only 10 episodes instead of 20 this season. Hi I just watched the series finale! I lost Ugly Betty and that had some good times!