Marketers are employed in the public sector as well as the private sector. Most people think of marketing as a strictly private sector activity, but the reality is people with sales and marketing backgrounds are hired by government agencies in a number of capacities. Government agencies at the local, state and federal level all employ marketing professionals in areas including, but not limited to, public relations, property disposal, bond sales and purchasing. Almost all major government agencies have their own public-relations staff, and in many cases it is a stand-alone department with a public relations or media director and several support staff. Government agency PR departments are responsible for producing news releases, holding press conferences, and generally promoting activities of the agency, such as tourism or encouraging new businesses to move into the area. Government agencies are constantly buying supplies, equipment and other property and selling off old equipment and property. The departments tasked with disposing of this government property often hire individuals with a background in marketing. Their job is to assist the agency in coming up with creative ways to sell or otherwise dispose of obsolete government property. Most government agencies have to follow complicated regulations for purchasing supplies and equipment. In many cases, agencies can only buy from certain suppliers or can only buy goods within specific price ranges. Agencies often hire purchasing agents with marketing backgrounds to help them manage their purchases, including setting criteria for suppliers and establishing price ranges. Government purchasing agents must be very familiar with current purchasing regulations at their agency. Local, state and federal agencies sometimes sell bonds to finance capital improvement projects in their jurisdictions. These agencies hire bond and securities marketing specialists to prepare bond prospectuses for investors, which detail the terms of the bond, and to organize marketing campaigns to sell the bonds. Bond marketing specialists also typically manage media relations for bond campaigns. Browne, Clayton. "Are There Marketing Jobs in the Government?" Work - Chron.com, http://work.chron.com/there-marketing-jobs-government-22921.html. Accessed 24 April 2019. What Is the Role of the Owner of the Supermarket? What Does a Beer Rep Do?