There is nothing more fulfilling than providing patient care and helping individuals on their road to recovery. Unfortunately, writing evaluations, progress notes, and discharge summaries are often a painful part to this rewarding career. Now you can access more data and analytics on your patient performance in one place, making documentation more efficient. Let us introduce you to your Clinician Dashboard. The Constant Therapy app has more to offer than ever before to aid in recovery for patients with cognitive, speech, and language disorders. You asked: How do I choose, modify or delete the initial recommended tasks for my client? First, why do we suggest an initial task plan? We know that choosing from 66 different tasks and 10 levels of difficulty can be a challenge. That’s why we generate an initial activity plan each time you add a new client. Our NeuroPerformance Engine looks at the demographics and the details of the initial profiles you provided when you added each of your clients, combines that with data from thousands of users who have a similar profile, and generates a customized exercise plan based on answers to those questions. At Constant Therapy, we take customer care seriously. We aim to provide timely, responsive, and professional customer service, delivered with compassion and patience for each person with whom we speak. We’ll answer your questions, concerns, and comments – no matter what they are. Call 1-888-233-1399 or email support@constanttherapy.com. What's the Story Behind Constant Therapy's Mobile Cognitive and Speech Therapy App? It’s a story that’s near and dear to our hearts – just how did Constant Therapy come to be? Read on to learn how the Constant Therapy app was born out of clinician and patient feedback, in collaboration with scientific and technology masterminds. Haven’t heard of Constant Therapy? You have now, and it may well become your go-to app for working with clients with stroke, aphasia, traumatic brain injury and learning disabilities. A Story That's Near and Dear to Our Hearts – Just How Did Constant Therapy Come to Be? First enter Dr. Swathi Kiran, a professor at Boston University’s world-renowned Aphasia Research Laboratory. Dr. Kiran has years of experience (and many degrees) under her belt guiding the field of speech-language pathology to offer the most effective and innovative therapy to people with aphasia. In the midst of a study that she and members of her lab were conducting, the perfect opportunity for merging communication treatment and technology arose. By combining the technological prowess of Veera Anantha, Mahendra Advani, and Ehsan Dagar, Constant Therapy was born.