The UJK Technology Multifunction Workbench frame is made from high quality birch plywood, chosen for its strength and stability. The outer frame is 18mm thick with a phenolic face, with an inner box construction out of 12mm birch ply. This ensures that the top remains perfectly flat at all times. There is storage in the centre of the frame for dogs and other accessories. Cut-outs in the frame enable it to fit onto the Brennenstuhl trestles, forming a strong and steady workbench. The front and rear aprons have plenty of Twist Dog holes for aligning workpieces vertically and cut-outs offer accessibility for clamps. Overall, the frame measures 1,140mm x 750mm x 150mm, the storage recess is 275mm x 465mm x 120mm. The UJK Technology Multifunction workbench top is 18mm thick Valchromat. It features a grid of 20mm plain dog holes: 11 holes by 7 holes. These holes are CNC machined to guarantee accuracy, aligned lengthways and widthways with the rows perfectly square to each other. These dog holes allow you to use Parf dogs and many other accessory clamps, guide rails and stops to hold, saw, rout and machine your work with spot-on accuracy. The kit includes a pair of Brennenstuhl trestles made from strong 25mm square steel tube. They fold almost flat saving space, when not in use, making transportation easy. These are vertically adjustable between 800mm and 1,300mm high for the most convenient working height. The splayed legs make a very stable workbench. Included in the kit is a pair of UJK Technology Twist Dogs. The Twist Dog’s unique feature is a pin through the spigot. This pin securely locks the Twist Dog into the specially drilled Twist Dog holes in the front and on the top of the workbench. Made from hard acetate plastic (the same material as shatterproof chisel handles), these dogs will not damage cutting edges in the case of accidental contact. The upper portion is a precise 25mm diameter. Twist Dogs use the alignment of the UJK Multifunction holes to set up fences, guide rails or workpieces. This product is on page 123 of the Axminster Tools & Machinery 2018/19 Catalogue.