Somfy Pty Limited has a partnership arrangement across Australia and New Zealand for the assembly and distribution of the made to measure GlydeaTM Curtain Track System. For any sales enquiries please contact your Somfy Regional Sales Manager or the Glydea Assembler convenient to you. A listing of partners can be found here. Tested for 15 years of operation. GlydeaTM curtain motorisation solutions meet the requirements of the most prestigious projects. Motorised curtains are becoming the standard requirement for high end homes, luxury apartments and top of the range projects such as high quality hotels, meeting and conference venues. GlydeaTM is quiet, discreet, flexibile and robust, offering personalised solutions to serve your imagination and broaden your horizons. The sophistication of GlydeaTM is reflected in the simple forms and sleek lines of the motor. Somfy Innovation: Patented cover and sleek design hides the cabling and protects the connectors and the control modules inside the motor. Reduced light gap thanks to the rail design and the swivel ceiling bracket. Adjustable limits, to allow the curtain to fall perfectly. Low noise level of the Motorised track (<44 dB(A)), thanks to the motor design and the use of a timing belt. "My" function, to automatically move the curtain to a preferred position. Adjustable speed: 12.5cm/s to 20cm/s. Somfy Innovation: Lyrease mechanical system which automatically disengages the motor drive shaft for manual operation preserving the fabric. The flexibility of GlydeaTM gives all the solutions to answer the most demanding projects. The offers can be personalised thanks to a large range of options. Rail up to 12m long. Bending radius up to 30cm. Customised curving and bending facilities available. Curtain weight up to 60kg - 100kg with tandem motors. Large range of accessories to adapt to different types of curtains. GlydeaTM can be equipped with plug in modules to interface with additional control technologies. RTS Receiver, compatibility with all the Somfy RTS controls. (1) Sound pressure level according to Somfy measurement standard. DISCLAIMER: Diagrams are examples only. Multiple configuration options are available. Please contact your Glydea partner for exact configurations for your project. In the charts below we give the maximum weight of the curtain in kg, which can be motorised by the different GlydeaTM versions according to the different track configurations, and the length of the track. The traversing capacity is given for an installation with no extra friction created by the fabric curtain touching the rail or the track pelmet. Maximum weight per runner: 1.5kg. Maximum distance between runners: 10cm. For bending and curving track length and radius limitation please refer to the specific data sheet. Maximum load per runner: 1.5kg. / Maximum distance between runners: 100mm.