​​​​Here, you can read about the radio certificates for maritime radio services in merchant and fishing vessels. You must apply for your certificates online. This is the case in connection with the first issue, renewals, re-acquisition or if your certificate has gone lost. When you apply, you must have your NemID and credit card at hand. We request a fee of DKK 500 for a certificate. You must attach a digital photo against a uniform background which meets the rules for passport photos. At the moment, we need an average of five days to consider applications, but always remember to apply well in advance. Once you have forwarded your application, you will receive two emails. One confirming receipt of your application together with a case number, and one confirming receipt of your payment. Should you have any questions or need to forward additional documentation to your case, you must answer the email received together with your case number. In order to acquire a GMDSS-GOC, GMDSS-ROC or LRC certificate for maritime radio services, you must complete a radio course offered by a nautical training institution or a teacher. The certificate has a period of validity of five years. In order to renew your certificate, you must document either 12 months' seagoing service during the last five years or 3 months' seagoing service during the last six months on board ships fitted with GMDSS radio equipment. If you are a teacher at a training institution, your competences will be assessed; this requires as a minimum a detailed work description signed by your employer. If you hold a valid GOC, you can have it replaced for a ROC or an LRC. The certificate has a period of validity of five years. In order to renew your certificate, you must apply for this. This certificate does not have any date of expiry and therefore need not be renewed. The certificate can be used only for radio systems on board fishing vessels and recreational craft with no GMDSS radio equipment. You can no longer serve as a navigating officer on board merchant ships with a radio certificate without an STCW endorsement, also referred to as ITU certificates. If you want to have a certificate with an STCW endorsement replaced, you must complete an STCW additional module in radio. This test is completed at a nautical school or with an approved teacher.