Who am I? What's this all About? You could say I grew up traveling, when I was young I lived in Lagos, Nigeria with my family. Over the years I spent there we traveled to some of the countries you see highlighted in green. During these travels I saw the pyramids of Egypt, I summited Mt. Kilimanjaro, skied in the alps, learned how to scuba dive in Mauritius, and so much more. I was very lucky in this respect, but living in West Africa exposed me to some stark realities. I quickly came to understand that the world is a harsh place to most people. The struggle for survival is something real and a part of most peoples' everyday lives. It wasn't until later, that I decided to travel again. This time on my own. At the age of twenty, fed up with the mundane routine of my life, I decided to take some time off school and head south. From my home in Colorado I traveled to Belize, Guatemala, and El Salvador. I was interested in environmental science, ecology, and societies different from my own and this area of the world beaconed me. I fell in love with the culture, the people, fellow travelers and the Spanish language. I spent just a few months down there, but I left with a promise to return. After just a couple years I graduated with a degree from Colorado State University, and I fulfilled that promise. It's now been over three years of traveling and I am still living the transient life, as a writer, traveler, and outdoor guide. Where will I be going next? The concept of Tramp-N-Trekker is simple, its a blog about the intersect between outdoor enthusiasm and a loose footing lifestyle. Covering a wide range of topics like the cost of living abroad, backpacking meals, gear reviews, travel tips, musings from the vagabond lifestyle and my personal thoughts on all related matters. This is meant to be for anyone who wants to travel, regardless of location or duration. It is meant to inspire people to travel while offering the tips and tricks I've acquired from doing so myself. During my travels I will be backpacking into the mountains, forests and jungles of the world. Exploring iconic cities and small villages alike. Meeting new people, and doing whatever else comes my way.