New concept design antenna - modern with a compact size to reduce wind load and provide much better signal reliability on windy or rainy days. 720 degree Omni-directional reception - receives signal from all directions including vertically. Unlike traditional large outdoor Antennas, no need to manually change the receiving direction. Save on installation Fees - easy tools-free installation. This modern antenna is so much easier to install than big traditional Antennas using the included accessories. Never Pay expensive cable or satellite Fees Again - pull in all of your local news, sitcom, kids and sports programs in full HD to any digital-ready TV. Vhf/UHF/FM: VHF 47-230mhz; UHF 470-700mhz. LONGER cable, easier setup - included 26ft high-performance coaxial cable makes it easy to place the amplified antenna in high-reception areas. This modern 720 degree-reception outdoor TV antenna provides excellent receiving ability in all directions, both horizontally and vertically, with no need to adjust its direction. With waterproofing and snowproofing as well as Anti-UV coating, its receiving ability is much improved over traditional antennas. Never Pay Hugely Expensive Cable or Satellite Fees Again! You Can Get All Local Channels in Crystal Clear Quality, Absolutely Free. 1. Fashionable design that fits with your home decoration. Compact to save space. 2. Save money as easy installation means no installation fees (unlike big traditional outdoor antennas). 3. VHF Bar designed to enhance vertical VHF channels reception, along with enhanced UHF and FM performance. 4. Anti-UV coating and stronger waterproofing for anti-snow and anti-sun durability. 5. Various mounting options: balcony, attic, living room, window with mast, roof, etc. The distance to your local broadcast towers will vary based on the location of your home. Visit "dtv.gov/maps" or similar sites and enter your address or zip code for details about the towers near you. This information will assist in selecting the correct antenna model and placing your antenna for the best results. Antenna with Built-in Amplifier, Power Supply Box, Power Adapter, 26ft Coaxial Cable with Waterproof Kit, Pole Mounting Accessories, Wall Mounting Accessories. 2. Retune your TV and/or digital box from time to time to ensure you are receiving all available services. Retuning takes only a few minutes using the remote control. Can you watch different channels on seperate tvs at the same time? Yes, but you will need a splitter so you can connect it to each TV. Then you can watch different channels on each TV. The signal might not be as strong though, and you may need to add an additional amplifier. But try it without one first, it might be fine. Does this come with the Antenna mounting bracket? Yes, this antenna comes with Pole Mounting Accessories and Wall Mounting Accessories. is the coax cable that comes with the unit RG59 or the better RG6? Our cable is RG 59. And you can use RG 59 or RG 6. is the cable attached to the antenna? You have to attach the cable yourself. It does not come already attached to the antenna. It screws in underneath. You need to attach the cable by yourself and it's easy for you to install it.