Job Description:Key Qualifications 4-8 years of relevant experience in design, development and maintenance of Business Intelligence, reporting and data applications is a requisite You should have advanced hands on experience with Tableau or similar BI dashboard visualization tool and in reporting platforms like SAP BOBJ, OBIEE etc. Experience in UI design, development and for custom build analytics applications along with advanced knowledge of SQL in related technologies like Oracle, Teradata, Vertica etc., performance debugging and tuning activities is mandatory Expertise in programmatically processing large data sets from multiple source systems, integration, data mining, summarization and presentation of results to exec audience is important A solid understanding of development to production processes, user acceptance and production validation testing, waterfall and agile development and code deployment methodologies is required Experience in core data warehousing concepts, dimensional data modeling, RDBMS, OLAP, ROLAP is important to have Additionally, experience with ETL tools used to automate manual processes (SQL scripts, Talend) as well as R, Python, Hadoop is a pre requisite Familiarity with operations and various supply chain functions (Planning, Fulfilment, Order Management, Forecasting) is mandatory Description Design, develop, and support dashboards and reports. Provide analysis to support business management and executive decision-making. Work with Apples IS T team to drive development of tools to better support business analytics. Partner with other Apple organizations on data governance, reporting tools, hierarchy management and critical metrics. Lead design and development of operationally effective solutions using the best available technology. Lead multiple technical projects and across competing priorities. Expertise in translating ambiguous business requirements into technical and analytical insights using various technology platforms. Demonstrated experience to show exemplary work ethic and passion to go above and beyond, and willingness to work with a global and geographically diverse team. Education Experience Bachelors in Computer Science, Statistics, Business Analytics, Finance, Marketing or related field. A Masters degree as well as knowledge about advanced analytics, machine learning skills are added advantages. Apple is an Equal Opportunity Employer that is committed to inclusion and diversity. We also take affirmative action to offer employment and advancement opportunities to all applicants, including minorities, women, protected veterans, and individuals with disabilities. Apple will not discriminate or retaliate against applicants who inquire about, disclose, or discuss their compensation or that of other applicants.