ROLE SUMMARY Individuals filling the position listed are responsible for providing advanced business support, business analysis and subject matter expertise in the evolution and continuous improvement of the content management.. Sr Content Manager RELX Group • Philadelphia PA 19133 Job #867735258 Sr Content Manager Category: Location: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States The Senior Content Manager I - drives the overall strategy.. Skills Records Management Metadata Project Management Archival Standards The Records Management Archivist for Research Output will assist in development of strategies to guide curation of Drexel-generated research output [data and.. Carney, Sandoe & Associates, an educational recruitment firm, is currently seeking experienced School Librarians and Media Specialists to fill positions at the K-12 private and independent schools we work with.. Education Doctoral Degree Skills Integrated Library System Drupal Reference and Online Services Librarian Cooper Medical School of Rowan University (CMSRU) Library, located in Camden, NJ seeks creative and dynamic candidates.. Library Information Specialist ASRC Federal Holding Company • Philadelphia PA 19133 Job #877422658 Position : Library Information Specialist Location : Philadelphia, PA Key Role: Maintain the library serials and circulation.. Cancel P Senior Associate, Content Management And Authoring New! Pfizer Collegeville , PA 19426 Posted Today Apply This Job is not relevant Tell us why ROLE SUMMARY Individuals filling the.. Skills SDLC The Senior Content Manager I - drives the overall strategy for acquiring new metric sources for use within PlumX Metrics and Elsevier product integrations. He/she will be responsible.. Duties and Responsibilities: Intensive biomedical database and Web searching (PubMed, EMBASE, OVID, CINAHL, The Cochrane Library, ClinicalTrials.gov, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, U.S. Food and Drug Administration, etc.) Search.. Global Medical Librarian, Clinical Solutions RELX Group • Philadelphia PA 19133 Job #868536790 Global Medical Librarian, Clinical Solutions Category: Location: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States Position summary: The EBM reference librarian..