Aaron N. Taylor joined the St. Louis University School of Law (SLU LAW) faculty in 2011, after a career as a higher education administrator. Professor Taylor’s primary teaching and research interests are in the areas of education law and legal ethics. In both realms, he seeks to contextualize the principal subject matter by considering larger political, economic, and sociological influences. Professor Taylor’s ultimate goals are to offer practical, interdisciplinary solutions to complicated problems, and to equip his students to do the same. Professor Taylor’s scholarly articles have appeared in journals published by American University, Howard University, University of Notre Dame, and University of New Mexico. His commentaries have appeared in numerous publications, including the Chronicle of Higher Education and the South Florida Sun Sentinel. He is also a frequent media commentator on education and diversity issues. Before joining SLU LAW, Professor Taylor served as associate dean for admissions and scholarships at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock William H. Bowen School of Law. At Bowen, he was the school’s first chief admissions officer, and successfully increased the median LSAT score, the number of students of color, and the applicant pool to their highest levels in the school’s history. He also co-directed the law school’s Pre-Law Undergraduate Scholars (PLUS) Program, a pipeline initiative premised on fostering diversity within legal education and the profession. He joined Bowen from Harvard University, where he directed admissions for five master’s degree programs in the Graduate School of Education. Prior to that, he practiced ethics law in Washington, D.C. In fall 2013, Professor Taylor began his tenure as director of the Law School Survey of Student Engagement, a national study that seeks to measure the effects of legal education on students. He takes over at LSSSE at a time when law schools are implementing various reforms, and the need for valid and reliable assessments is critical. Professor Taylor’s professional affiliations are numerous. He has been very active with the Law School Admission Council, serving on its Finance and Legal Affairs Committee, its Annual Meeting and Educational Conference Planning Committee, and its Misconduct and Irregularities Subcommittee. He also served as chair of the Minority Network of Law School Admissions Professionals and on the executive council of the Young Lawyers Section of the Arkansas Bar. Professor Taylor is a member of the Florida Bar.