Max H. Bazerman is the Jesse Isidor Straus Professor of Business Administration at HBS, and is formally affiliated with the Kennedy School of Government, the Psychology Department, the Institute for Quantitative Social Sciences, the Harvard University Center on the Environment, and the Program on Negotiation. Max’s research focuses on decision making in negotiation, and improving decision making in organizations, nations, and society. He focuses on collaborating with the next generation of scholars in decision and negotiation research. In 2003, Max received the Everett Mendelsohn Excellence in Mentoring Award from Harvard University’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. In 2006, Max received an honorary doctorate from the University of London (London Business School), the Kulp-Wright Book Award from the American Risk and Insurance Association, and the Life Achievement Award from the Aspen Institute’s Business and Society Program. Iris Bohnet is a Professor of Public Policy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. A behavioral economist, her research focuses on the causes and consequences of trust and the role of institutions in decision making, negotiation and society. Whenever possible, she examines the “global validity” of experimental results by running her studies in regions of the world so far little explored by experimentalists (e.g., in the Arab world) and with men and women from diverse backgrounds. She is the faculty chair of the Women and Public Policy Program (WAPPP), the co-faculty chair of the World Economic Forum’s Young Global Leaders’ executive program, is a member of the Program on Negotiation’s Executive Committee, and is affiliated with the Institute for Quantitative Social Sciences, the Dubai Initiative, the Center for Business and Government and the Center for Public Leadership at Harvard. She also serves on the boards of the Graduate Institute of International Studies in Geneva, Switzerland, the Vienna University of Economics and Business Administration in Austria, and numerous academic journals. Joshua D. Greene is an experimental psychologist, neuroscientist, and a philosopher. In 2006 he joined the faculty of Harvard University’s Department of Psychology as an assistant professor. His primary research interest is the psychological and neuroscientific study of morality, focusing on the interplay between emotional and “cognitive” processes in moral decision-making. His broader interests cluster around the intersection of philosophy, psychology and neuroscience. He is currently writing a book about the philosophical implications of our emerging scientific understanding of morality. Jennifer S. Lerner is Professor of Public Policy and Management at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government. She holds additional faculty affiliations at Harvard in the Center for Public Leadership, the Psychology Department, the Center for Business and Government, and the Institute for Quantitative Social Sciences. Professor Lerner’s research examines social and emotional influences on judgment and decision making. She has received several awards for her research, including the 2004 Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE). Awarded by National Science Foundation in a White House ceremony, the PECASE recognized Lerner for “innovative research at the frontiers of science.” Grants from the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health have nearly continuously funded her training and research. Reports on Lerner’s research can be found in scientific journals as well as in popular print (e.g., The New York Times) and broadcast media (e.g., Good Morning America). Deepak Malhotra is an Associate Professor in the Negotiations, Organizations, and Markets Unit at the Harvard Business School. Deepak is the author (with Max Bazerman) of the book Negotiation Genius. Deepak’s research focuses on negotiation strategy, trust development, international and ethnic dispute resolution, and competitive escalation, and has been published in top journals in the fields of management, psychology, and conflict resolution. Deepak has also won numerous awards for both his teaching and his research. In 2001, he was an invited fellow at the Solomon Asch Center for Study of Ethno-political Conflict at the University of Pennsylvania.