The task context considers the relationships between business framework and project, which can be synergetic or competing. The social context is the result of a project environment analysis internal and external. The business case includes pre- and post-project phase. All processes are subject to an economic analysis recording and evaluating the direct project costs and the consequential costs and benefits. The relationship between the environments and the project has to be evaluated and shown in a graphic. The evaluation results in appropriate measures for relationship management. Project definition defines what is in the project, what are the limits of the project, what is the scope of the project. The definition concerns 3 dimensions: tasks, time and social aspects. This analysis is carried out for the same three dimensions: tasks, time and social aspects. It is critical to find out who supports the project, and who could be a hindrance. What are the project theme and content? What environmental issues could affect the project? Does the project match with the mission statement of our school? What has lead to the project? Which decisions have already been made? Which documents do exist? What will be different after the project? What are the costs and benefits? Who takes which roles? Who is project manager, team member, project coach? Formulate the goals positively! Goal is profit! Non-Goals are important. What should not be reached? Non-Goals could be goals of other projects. Negative effects are not non-goals. As detailed as necessary, as general as possible! Goals have to be measurable. Don’t describe measures how the goals should be reached. Definition of goals requires prioritizing. Goals affect amount of resources required. Definition clarifies where to go and helps to cooperate. Which problem should be solved? What happened during the pre-project phase? Who controlled the pre-project phase? Who promoted the idea, who affected the idea negatively? Which decisions have been made? What will be after the project? Which activities to be carried out after the project have to be thought of? Project manager coordinates all activities. She/he alone has the right for amendments. 1.What does the project definition and the analysis of project context show? 2.What are the dimensions of definition and context analysis? 3.Which tools do you use for visualization of pre- and post-project phase? 4.Which tools do you use for showing goals, non-goals and main tasks? 5.What’s included in the task context? 6.Name and describe the different project roles, explain their main tasks. 7.What is the content of the social context analysis?