At Hargray, we use the latest technology to manage our diverse platforms and support operational success. We foster an environment where innovative solutions are the key to driving our vision. You might be a great fit for us if you love to work in a fast-paced, dynamic environment where time flies as you juggle competing priorities. We are customer service oriented and seek applicants that are strong communicators with the ability to easily interact with multiple business stakeholders. If you like boundaries and exact specifications, we are not the place for you. We are seeking creative, problem solvers that thrive in challenging circumstances. If you want to enhance your technical skills and have a deep understanding of Digital Transformation, we would love to broaden your skill base. We are a 24/7 customer –focused operation. As with any Digital Transformation rollout you can expect robust challenges and full days. However, there is a very nice tradeoff - you get to work or in one of America’s top-rated beach island! If you are an energetic, tech-savvy go-getter and would like to learn more, click on the link to view the full job details and apply to this amazing opportunity. We are open to hiring remote candidates for this contract position with a nominal travel requirement depending on the needs of the project. Seeking an Engineer who will define & analyze customer journeys across voice, video and internet platforms, derive User Stories and associated requirements and map business processes to a proposed technical solution. Design future business processes based on Digital Transformation best practices. Use best practices to influence/define/review customer journeys and business requirements and document target User Stories. Exchange with business users to converge on a complete, yet granular, set of user stories which are manageable from a delivery perspective. Facilitate the identification of process gaps and propose recommendations to resolve these process gaps. Collaborate with Hargray Sales, Customer Support Engineers and OSSBSS Business Analysts to facilitate processes to support the end to end delivery of products and services. Participate in agile requirement analysis and design interactive sessions to ensure business processes are correctly mapped to system capabilities. Assess the impact of proposed technical solution upon the existing business processes and recommend changes in organizational responsibilities and methods and procedures. Work closely with the Vendor Project manager to keep alignment in process goals in meeting deadlines and capturing industry best practices in newly designed business processes.