Initially formed to assist in the defence of the city of Metz against French bombing raids, Royal Prussian Jagdstaffel 17 would go on to become one of the most distinguish German fighter units of World War 1. Its first victory was scored by the pilot whose story is inextricably interwoven with that of his unit - the ‘Blue Max' recipient Julius Buckler. He was largely responsible for inspiring the unit's unique Esprit de Corps, expressed in its famous and unique ‘battle-cry' of ‘Malaula!' Indeed, in its final days the unit gained the nickname Zirkus Buckler, or the ‘Buckler Circus'. Besides Buckler, Jasta 17 boasted such aces as Karl Strasser, Alfred Fleischer and Christian Donhauser. In addition, the roster included colourful characters like the successful Jewish airman Jakob Wolff, who at over 48 years of age was the oldest German fighter pilot of the war. The story of this illustrious unit is told with many first-hand accounts by Buckler, Fleischer and others, as well as dozens of rare archival photos of the unit's beautifully decorated fighter aircraft. Greg VanWyngarden has had a lifelong interest in World War 1 aviation and has been particularly active in researching the colours and markings of German fighter aircraft. He has written many books for Osprey and has co-authored three previous titles with Norman Franks: Fokker Dr I Aces of World War 1 and Fokker D VII Aces of World War 1, Volume 1 and Volume 2. He was the sole author of: Aviation Elite Units 16 ‘Richthofen's Circus', Elite Units 19 Jagdgeschwader Nr II Geschwader ‘Berthold', Elite Units 26 Jagdstaffel 2 ‘Boelcke' - Richthofen's Mentor, Elite Units 40 Jasta 18 The Red Noses, Pfalz Scout Aces of World War 1, Early German Aces of World War 1, and Albatros Aces of World War I, Part 2.Harry Dempsey has been passionate about World War 1 aviation for over 30 years, having produced some of the most technically accurate colour artwork on the subject. He has illustrated nearly all of Osprey's WW 1 aviation titles to date.