Experience real Italian cuisine at Festa Italiana. Embrace your inner scientist aboard Schmidt Ocean Institute’s R/V Falkor and the NOAA ship Okeanos Explorer. These one-day-only, free public ship tours will give attendees the opportunity to hear firsthand accounts of working onboard, while learning about research conducted in Pacific waters. The dockside Education Pavilion will feature interactive exhibits from University of Hawai‘i scientists as well as other exhibitors. Photo ID and closed toe shoes are required. Skip the pepperoni pizza and experience real Italian cuisine at Festa Italiana. Admission to the street festival portion of this foodie event is free and open to the public, and will feature authentic Italian as well as Italian-inspired dishes—all priced at $8 or less—from local eateries, including Il Gelato Hawaiʻi, J.J. Dolan’s, Brick Fire Tavern and more. Enjoy live entertainment by Mango Season, Hawaiʻi Youth Symphony, Hawaiʻi Opera Theatre and others. Help Kahumana Farms celebrate 40 years of service in the community at the fifth annual Kahumana Organic Farm & Café Farm Festival, Seed and Plant Exchange, and Fundraiser. This free community event is a celebration of food sustainability as well as local culture, crafts, products, cuisine, education, artists and music. Enjoy live entertainment by Tavana, Paul Izak, Hawaiki and Mai Sol, plus ʻono eats by Roy’s Ko Olina, Plantation Tavern, Juicy Brew and more. Join more than 1,000 people as they raise awareness about the domestic violence crisis in Hawaiʻi at the 23rd annual Men’s March Against Violence. Every year, 50,000 Island women between the ages of 18 and 64 are domestic violence victims; men as well as the community at large are asked to march to raise awareness, educate the community and instill values of peace and nonviolence. The march begins with a remembrance ceremony at 11:45 a.m., leaves the Capitol at noon and ends with a rally at Sky Gate Park. Prepare your pooch for a howling good time at Hawaiʻi Doggie Bakery’s second annual Halloween event, which is a fundraiser for Assistance Dogs of Hawaiʻi. Attendees and their humans can participate in various free games and activities, such as a Halloween costume contest and a photo booth. This year’s festivities will also include a doggie escape room, which requires a small donation fee and online registration. Support the American Cancer Society during Breast Cancer Awareness Month at the 3-mile Making Strides Against Breast Cancer walk. Join the pink parade and help the society celebrate people who have battled breast cancer, educate others about ways to reduce their risk, and empower communities to join the fight. Donations are welcome, but the walk is free, because every step taken helps to lead the fight for a world without cancer. View vibrant, colorful textiles at the East-West Center Gallery exhibition gala opening of Irresistible Resist: The Art of Indian Dyes and Design. The exhibition will be on display through Feb. 11, 2018, but only the October opening night includes a reception and exhibition tour with curators Michael Schuster and Yael Rosenfield.