Dr. Kotra is the Director at the Center for Molecular Design and Preformulations at University Health Network (UHN), a Senior Scientist at UHN, and Associate Professor of Medicinal Chemistry at University of Toronto. He was a Co-Founder of CannScience Innovations Inc. and has authored and co-authored over 100 publications including peer-reviewed scientific manuscripts, expert review articles and book chapters. He is the holder of several biomedical patents and has been a featured speaker at nearly 100 conferences around the world. Dr. Kotra has extensive experience in drug discovery research, and development in several therapeutic areas. Dr. Kotra teaches medicinal chemistry and latest trends in drugs and biologics, including medical cannabinoids, at the Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto. Dr. Kotra is a recipient of several awards including the Premier’s Research Excellence Award from the Province of Ontario, Rx&D Health Research Foundation Research Career award and the GlaxoSmithKline-Canadian Society for Pharmaceutical Sciences Young Investigator Award. Dr. Kotra received his Ph.D. in pharmacy (medicinal chemistry) from the University of Georgia and postdoctoral training in the Department of Chemistry, Wayne State University. Dr. Clarke is the Director of Pain Services and the Medical Director of the Pain Research Unit at the Toronto General Hospital. After his medical doctor (MD) and anesthesia subspecialty training in Toronto, he received his PhD from the Institute of Medical Sciences at the University of Toronto and is a member of the Royal College Clinician Scientist Program. His research interests comprise; identifying novel acute pain treatments following major surgery; identifying the factors involved in the transition of acute post-surgical pain to chronic pain; and identifying risk factors associated with continued opioid use and poor health related quality of life after major surgery. He has further subspecialty training in Hyperbaric Medicine and Interventional Chronic Pain Management. Dr. Clarke was recently awarded the 2016 Early Career Award from the Canadian Pain Society and is recognized nationally and internationally for his research productivity and improvements to patient care such as the development of his novel Transitional Pain Program. Dr. Fish is a Canada Research Chair in Women’s Health & Immunobiology, Professor of Immunology at the University of Toronto and a Senior Scientist at the University Health Network in Toronto, Canada. Dr. Fish is a world-renowned immunologist and arthritis researcher, with a proven track record in basic and translational research for the development of various immunotherapeutics and diagnostic markers, including establishing interferon treatment protocols for the treatment of SARS, flu, and Ebola virus infections. Dr. Greenberg is currently the Director, Neuroscience Drug Discovery and Development at University Health Network in Toronto. He has held a series of positions internationally in the US, Sweden, and Canada within the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. Dr. Greenberg was the leader of a drug discovery project at AstraZeneca through lead optimization. Prior to moving to Toronto, he was Senior Director of Pharmacology at Neurochem. Dr. Greenberg has several decades of experience in drug development and clinical trials, in neurosciences. Dr. Humar is the Director of the UHN Multi-Organ Transplant Program, and the University of Toronto Transplant Institute. Dr. Humar received his medical degree from the University of Ottawa, and completed his clinical and research training in infectious diseases and transplantation in Toronto and Boston. Dr. Humar’s research interests are in virology with a focus on herpes virus infections post-transplant. He has received numerous honors and awards including Canada’s Top 40 Under 40 as well as several research awards. Dr. Hung is an anesthesiologist, and specializes in pain management at Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Center in Halifax, NS, Canada, and a professor of Pharmacology and Anesthesiology, at Dalhousie University. Dr. Hung focuses on airway management, clinical pharmacology and drug delivery systems. He is responsible for the development of a number of innovative drug delivery systems and medical devices, especially for the delivery of narcotics and pain medications. Dr. Weaver is a Senior Scientist and Director of Krembil Research Institute at University Health Network, and a professor of Pharmacy, Chemistry and Medicine at University of Toronto. Dr. Weaver’s research includes drug design strategies to a variety of disorders, including Alzheimer’s disease (AD), protein misfolding dementia (tauopathies), epilepsy and stroke. Dr. Weaver is also a neurologist, and practices in the Epilepsy Clinic at Toronto Western Hospital.