This summer will be Cait’s first summer at FLC. Cait worked at Bonnie Brae, which is a residential treatment center for at-risk youth boys. Every summer, Bonnie Brae rents out FLC and Cait fell in love with FLC the minute she pulled into the driveway. Cait was a part of the recreation department at Bonnie Brae and tried to spend every moment at the waterfront! Cait is from New Jersey and is currently pursuing a master’s degree in education and leadership at St. Lawrence University in upstate New York. While pursuing a degree at St. Lawrence University, she is also the assistant softball coach at the university. Before St. Lawrence, Cait attended The College of New Jersey and received a degree in women and gender studies with a minor in sociology. She is very passionate about helping others and is interested in finding different ways to motivate others to achieve their goals. She is very excited to find unique ways to motivate everyone at camp! What am I looking forward to this summer? I am thrilled to take on the role of head counselor at FLC! This is a new and exciting chapter in my life and I am ready for the challenge. I am excited to build strong and healthy relationships with staff and campers. I am looking forward to having fun at camp and adding some flavor to the FLC experience! This summer will be Caroline’s 10th summer at FLC. She has been to camp as both a camper and counselor and is thrilled to return this summer as a Head Counselor on Girls’ Camp! Caroline is from New York City and currently studying history at Wesleyan University in Connecticut. She is passionate about social justice issues and is pursuing a certificate in civic engagement along with her degree. She also works with a number of international and local nonprofit organizations that focus on refugee-related issues, assisting in areas such as tutoring, legal aid, and resettlement. She has learned a lot about open-mindedness, gratitude, respect, and community from this work and hopes to bring these values with her to camp! Last summer Caroline led the LIT program on Girls’ Camp in addition to taking photos for the camp website, end-of-session slideshows, and social media pages. When Caroline is not looking out for her campers and staff on Girls’ Camp she is teaching fitness zumba, creative writing, and lacrosse. Caroline brings an infectious laugh, a deep respect for others, and an incredibly strong work ethic to all she does. FLC is fortunate to watch her grow as a respected leader at camp. Caroline is looking forward to another summer of adventure, community, and fun! Why do I return to FLC? Camp has opened me up to an incredible community all over the world. It has taught me communication, organization, and leadership skills that carry me through the off season, and it has helped me build confidence and empathy. Most importantly, it has connected me to people, places, and perspectives that would not otherwise be on my radar. I love the Adirondacks and everything about camp!